# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1960-11-29
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Goh Keng Swee (Minister for Finance); Sir George Oehlers (Mr Speaker);

---

2.55 p.m.

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

Dr Goh Keng Swee (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Goh Keng Swee):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Goh Keng Swee): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move.

That this Assembly approves the financial policy of the Government for the year 1961.

This is the second budget of the P.A.P. Government. The background against which this budget is being presented is markedly different from that a

year ago. Then we had to contend with an atmosphere of uncertainty. The P.A.P. Government had been in office for barely five months and we saw how during election campaigning, irresponsible Right-wing Parties worked themselves into a fright. It would not have mattered if the hysteria they generated confined itself to those parties and their few well-wishers. But in the nature of things, the fright campaign must have further repercussions. Although by November of last year we managed to stabilise the position considerably, there still remained some hesitation and uncertainty which had to be removed before the economy could settle down to effective work.

Now we are in office for nearly a year and a half. In making a review of the economic position in 1960, I have the advantage that there has now been sufficient time for our policies to make their impact and for results to be known. This is the ultimate test. For a government is judged not so much by its expressions of good intentions but by its concrete achievements in the way of economic prosperity and public welfare. By this standard the people of Singapore have done well.

The year under review has been a good one for Singapore. There has been a marked expansion in trade, in industrial output, in the standards of personal consumption, in business confidence, in the conditions of workers, and in the level of public services. I shall elaborate on this in more detail at a later stage.

First, since Singapore is a centre of international trade and part of the world economy. I must make a brief review of major economic events and trends in the world at large, and more particularly in our two neighbouring territories, the Federation of Malaya and Indonesia. In both the western world and the communist countries. 1960 has generally seen sustained economic expansion. The industrial countries of Europe consolidated the gains initiated in previous years.

In America, however, the expansion was halted in the third quarter of this year and important economic indicators showed a downward trend. However, the economies of the western industrial

world had been strengthened to a marked extent in the last 15 years so that, even if a recession were to take place in the United States, it is unlikely that it would lead to a general world recession. We have moved a long way from the late 40's and 50's when even a mild recession in the United States brought misfortune to other countries.

## Economic Development in Asia

## Economic Development in Asia

Economic Development in Asia

In Asia, the newly independent countries struggle valiantly to achieve economic development. India prepares for a massive third Five-Year Plan in an effort to lift her four hundred million citizens from the age-old and dire poverty. The Plan envisages a capital outlay of 100,000 million Rupees. The rate of gross capital accumulation is to be increased from about 11 per cent at present to about 14 per cent by 1965-66. Large new industries are being established. Through extensive community development schemes, India tries to spur on her stagnant rural economies to race ahead of population pressure. Other South and South-Eastern Asian countries too have accepted the over-riding importance of economic development as a national objective, though most of them have not achieved, so far, the success in planning and execution that India has.

In East Asia, the other Asian colossus, China continues to make great strides in economic development. Through the stern discipline of the Communist society, the Chinese have been able to mobilise the manpower resources more effectively than those countries constrained by the processes of democratic persuasion. When six hundred million industrious people apply their brain power and muscle power in a concerted effort, the result cannot be other than a prodigious advance in material output.

Among the non-Communist Asian countries, Japan has shown the most striking expansion of industrial output. The Japanese plough back no less than 25 per cent of their national income to expand their economy, a rate that has

few equals in contemporary history. The result has been a rate of development that exceeds the best achieved by Western Germany, whose economic revival after the war has been acclaimed by all as nothing short of miraculous. In 1959 the Gross National Product of Japan increased by 16 per cent, a world record. Industrial output increased by 29 per cent. Yet this phenomenal expansion did not bring in its train price-inflation or balance of payment difficulties. Prices were steady and Japan's foreign exchange reserves actually increased.

So the general picture in Asia is one in which every Government has accepted, as a prime objective of policy, the conquest of poverty through the expansion of material output by the application of capital and know-how. Asians no longer accept poverty, disease and ignorance as the natural order of human society. All move forward, or try to do so, towards improved material well-being. But the journey is a long and harsh one and not everyone is aware of the sustained effort and sacrifices that this must impose.

## Federation of Malaya

## Federation of Malaya

Federation of Malaya

In 1960, favourable conditions in the Western industrial world send their impulses to the raw material producing countries of tropical Asia through better prices of raw materials. In our case, this takes the form principally of higher prices for rubber and tin. Rubber remained at over $1 for the best part of this year, reaching the peak of $1.43 in May. Since the latter half of September, there has been a sustained decline in prices of rubber. Rubber and tin prices have brought about a marked increase in prosperity in the Federation through increasing both the Government revenues and the incomes of companies and persons. In Indonesia, rubber prices had not only increased her foreign exchange earnings, but also increased the physical quantity of her rubber exports. The effect of this has been to increase the purchasing power in these two countries. Singapore has directly benefited from prosperity in the Federation, although in the case of Indonesia, the level of trade has not expanded.

The long-term prospects for rubber, according to expert opinion is sound. Furthermore, extensive replanting of rubber undertaken by the Federation in past years will be reflected in the years to come in increasing production. Part of this increased output will flow to the world's market through the port of Singapore, and this is something which we can look forward to with gratification.

In my last budget speech, I referred to the necessity for establishing some form of common market arrangements with the Federation. Members already know that discussions on this proposal had already commenced with the Government of the Federation of Malaya, who are making a close study of the scheme which we submitted to them. As the matter is still under consideration, I do not think it appropriate for me to make any public comment on it. A matter of vital importance in our economic relations with the Federation of Malaya is one that affects our currency arrangements. The currency we are using is one in which the Governments of the five territories participated, namely, Singapore, the Federation of Malaya, the State of Brunei, Sarawak and North Borneo. In February this year, the five Governments initialled an agreement which makes for certain changes which are necessary by virtue of the status of the Federation of Malaya as an independent State. This agreement has been given legislative effect by the passage through this Assembly of the Currency Ordinance on the 21st of September this year. It now remains for all the participants to bring into force the various ordinances taken through their legislatures. As a trading centre, we understand the imperative need for a strong and stable currency. The Malayan dollar with its automatic convertibility into sterling, made possible by substantial overseas reserves, provides such a strong currency. So now we have five territories in this area, which have a common historical background of British colonial rule, sharing a common currency. This surely stands as a stabilising economic force to the advantage of all the participants. It is the hope of my Government that it would be possible to

retain, if necessary with suitable modifications, the present co-operative arrangement between the five territories which has worked so well. A strong currency is something we enjoyed for so long in the past that its importance has often been taken for granted and even overlooked. But without the firm financial base of a sound currency, no underdeveloped region can hope to tackle the immense problems of economic development.

## Indonesia

## Indonesia

Indonesia

I now turn to Indonesia. The improvement in our relations with Indonesia, to which I referred last year, continues to make progress. A Fact Finding Mission was sent by the Indonesian Government to Singapore and it held talks with officials of the Singapore Government at which useful interchange of views took place. The Singapore Government intends to dispatch its own Fact Finding Mission to Djakarta to clear the way for a trade agreement.

Many of the problems arising in our trade with Indonesia are long standing and difficult. While we are a free trade economy with controls reduced to the barest minimum, the Indonesians prefer a policy of "guided economy". This, in effect, means the imposition of controls over all major aspects of trade and production. What we have to do is to meet the legitimate requirements of Indonesia's guided economy in such a way as not to destroy our entrepot trade. Again, as this is a matter which is under discussion between the two Governments, I do not think it appropriate for me to make any detailed public comments, except to hope that the solution which will be mutually satisfactory to both countries will emerge.

In the meantime, we are pressing ahead with our plans to establish a Trade and Cultural Commission in Djakarta. I expect that this will be established early next year. During the period under review, trade with Indonesia fell to a slightly lower level as compared with 1959. Our exports to Indonesia averaged $9.8 million per month this year as against $10.9 million in 1959. Certain items, such as textile yarn,

showed a substantial increase, being about $943 thousand per month this year as compared with $553 thousand last year. But many items declined. Following upon the strengthening of the Indonesian foreign exchange reserves, there has been a greater diversification in the items in our export to her, and one hopes that this trend will continue. Our imports from Indonesia averaged $83.4 million per month as against $94.6 million in 1959. Rubber, the most important commodity, showed little change, averaging $50.0 million per month this year as against $49.7 million last year. Petroleum products showed a severe decline.

## Improvement in Singapore in 1960

## Improvement in Singapore in 1960

Improvement in Singapore in 1960

Let me now review how Singapore has fared so far this year. I referred before to the improved conditions in the trade and industry of our State. May I be permitted to amplify this statement. There was an increase in our foreign trade, as I mentioned before. Total imports and exports increased from $5,348 million for the first 9 months of last year to $5,720 million for the corresponding period this year. In percentage terms this means an increase of 7 per cent. This increase did not result entirely from higher prices of rubber and other primary products. There was also an increase in the physical volume of goods handled. The greater physical volume of trade shows itself in the figures of cargoes discharged and loaded in Singapore. From January to July this year the general cargo discharged at the Harbour Board wharves was 1.215 million tons compared with 1.132 million tons last year, representing an increase of 7.3 per cent. Cargo loaded rose from 1.035 million tons last year to 1.074 million tons this year.

The improved trading position is reflected in the financial statistics of the country. Bank advances to customers increased from $503 million in January to $569.5 million in September. The major part of this increase in bank advances

went to trade and commerce. In January this year, $336.7 million was advanced to trade rising to $388.4 million in September, an increase of more than 15 per cent.

The manufacturing industries of Singapore saw a general advance in production. Published material on this subject is somewhat patchy. The Government has decided to remedy this state of affairs for, having regard to the importance which it places on industrialisation, it is vital that much more statistical information about our industries should be at our disposal than now exists. Accordingly a census of manufacturers was carried out in the third quarter of this year and the results are being compiled. The census of manufacturers is based on a coverage of all firms employing 10 workers or more per factory and a sample survey of 10 per cent of the smaller establishments. It is proposed to carry out this census annually so that the Government shall have at its disposal comprehensive and reliable data on the progress of industry.

The results will not be available for some time yet and we have to rely on the scattered information which it had been the past practice to collect. This shows a fairly substantial all round increase in the output of manufacturing industries. Other than soft drinks and soap, all industries covered show considerable advances. The cigarette industry continues to make great strides, the quantity produced in the first nine months of the year increasing from 1.6 million pounds in 1959 to 2.1 million pounds this year, an increase of 28 per cent. Other industries which show substantial progress are coconut oil, 25 per cent increase, rubber footwear, 23 per cent increase, and remilled rubber 36 per cent increase. The electric power consumed by industries increased by 13 per cent.

The construction industry which had been depressed for some considerable time began to press ahead. This was principally due to the building programme of the Housing and Development Board, which was established

this year. The Board lost no time in getting down to work and pulling itself out of the difficulties created in the S.I.T. by the mismanagement of the former Minister for National Development. The Housing and Development Board has to date awarded contracts to the value of $21.8 million and by the end of this year expects to increase it to $27.3 million. This will mean that in about a year's time, when all these houses and flats would be completed, 8,350 new homes will be available for the ill-housed citizens of Singapore. An innovation which the Housing Board intends to introduce is the $20 per month one-room flat for workers whose income do not permit them better accommodation.

The revival of the construction industry this year brings about improved figures in the production and import of building materials. The output of sawn timber has increased from 10,300 cubic tons in January this year to 16,700 cubic tons in August. Imports of cement and steel bars increased substantially in the course of the year. For the third quarter of this year, these are 34 per cent and 20 per cent higher respectively than the average for last year. Bricks have gone down badly but this appears to result from the greater use of substitute material, principally cement blocks.

With the expansion of trade and industry going on at the rate described above, it is to be expected that, as people have higher incomes, they will purchase more goods. There are certain consumer goods the demand for which reflects sensitively changes in personal incomes. These are the luxury and semi-luxury goods. The import of refrigerators showed a continuous increase during the year. For the third quarter of this year, the number of refrigerators imported was more than 50 per cent higher than the average for 1959. The registration of new motor cars showed a similar marked increase. Compared with the 1959 average, new motor car registrations were 39 per cent higher in the third quarter of this year than in 1959. The number of motor cycles registered showed an even

greater increase - in the third quarter of 1960, it was more than 2½ times last year's average quarterly rate. So too were the number of new driving licences. This showed a continuous increase during the year, from 5,500 in the first quarter to 6,300 in the third quarter.

All in all, the indications are that there was a solid and substantial revival of the economy this year. What is remarkable in this economic revival is that the expansion in trade and production did not bring about any inflationary process. The currency in circulation for the Malayan dollar area remained practically stationary, being $1,162 million in January and $1,166 million in September. Prices of consumer goods did not rise. On the contrary, the official index of retail prices showed a decline of 5.4 points from 317.2 in January to 311.8 in September. I am acutely aware of the inadequacies of the present official price index and am taking steps to institute a new series which will have a more scientific and realistic basis. Whatever the faults of the present index, if there is any error introduced, it would be in the direction of understating the fall in prices. This is due to certain technical reasons into which I need not enter here. Taking into account all items of consumer goods in the course of the year, there has been a significant fall in prices. There are very few instances in contemporary economic history where economic expansion and falling prices occurred simultaneously.

## New Industries

## New Industries

New Industries

The rate of industrial expansion has shown improvement since the last budget. There are now no less than 54 projects under various stages of consideration for the award of pioneer status. Twenty-six projects can be considered to be firm proposals and gazette notifications have been issued or will soon be issued in respect of those that qualify for pioneer status. The two oil refineries have already been awarded pioneer status and construction

work has commenced. Some of the new industries for which pioneer status is being considered include the manufacture of a wide range of consumer goods such as condensed milk, chocolates, toothpaste, garments, matches and so forth. Among the major proposals are flour milling, textile weaving and a steel rolling mill. The total capital involved in all these projects is well over $100 million, and when they are in operation, they would provide employment for more than 2,500 workers.

Projects still in the exploratory stages include a wide range of industries. I do not, however, propose to supply more information about them at this stage. The authorized capital of these projects is estimated to be in the region of $70 million and they would provide employment, if carried to fruition, for some 2,000 workers.

As distinct from the establishment of new industries, the expansion of existing ones proceeds apace. Many of these are small establishments. Since we assumed office, 85 small factories have been established providing a total employment of 1,049 workers.

In normal circumstances, industrial expansion of the scale I have described can be considered satisfactory. However, in the present situation of Singapore with its population explosion, much more is required. An expansion of at least 2 to 3 times the present rate would be necessary. Much more needs to be done to accelerate the growth of industry. Members are aware of the various teams of international experts who have recently been in Singapore and who are, at the present moment, conducting their investigations here. There is Mr P. L. Schereschewsky who came to Singapore in July this year on a preliminary study of the prospects of establishing a steel industry in this island. He has completed his preliminary report and will return soon with a larger team of specialists in various lines of steel production and marketing.

The Mission sent by the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration to study methods of industrial expansion in Singapore is the most powerful team that has been dispatched by that organisation. It is headed by Dr Albert Winsemius who has a distinguished record both as a Government official and as an industrialist. Members of his team include an Electrical Engineer, a Chemical Engineer, a Mechanical Engineer, an Industrial Site Planner and a Shipbuilding Engineer. The team has been working very hard since their arrival in October this year and we look forward to receiving their report.

Among the conditions necessary for rapid industrial growth is peace and stability in labour-management relations. The P.A.P. Government is a Government elected by the people and is one that is partial to the working class. It is to be expected that workers and their unions would take steps to redress the disparity of power which they experienced under the previous Government. There have been a number of claims for wage increases nearly all of which were settled amicably by negotiation. There have been more claims for fringe benefits and substantial gains were made in respect of these.

It is natural that employers profess alarm at the revival of trade union strength. Although there have been some individual instances where the unions displayed an unnecessary waywardness, on the whole the labour position is well contained through co-operation between the union leaders and the Ministry of Labour and Law. For the most part both labour and management have shown good sense to effect settlements satisfactory to all. Those who take alarm at the manifestations of increasing activity of the unions should not lose their sense of proportion. The P.A.P. Government is fully aware of the need for peace and stability. This is one of the basic pillars of our policy. The close attention with which we have paid to this problem has expressed itself in many items of legislation, particularly in the recent establishment of the Industrial Court. The P.A.P. Government is as anxious as anybody else

to press ahead with the industrialisation of Singapore, which cannot be brought about under unsettled labour conditions. The Government has asked the Singapore Trades Union Congress for full and wholehearted co-operation in bringing about this stability and discussions are in progress on how this can be brought about.

## The Economic Policy of the P.A.P. Government

## The Economic Policy of the P.A.P. Government

The Economic Policy of the P.A.P. Government

I have discussed industrial expansion and its relation to labour and capital in the circumstances we find ourselves in Singapore. The policy of the P.A.P. Government in these matters is implied rather than explicitly stated in my remarks. I wish to take this opportunity to dwell more extensively on it for now we are entering an area in which the cobwebs of prejudice and preconceptions abound and frustrate clear thinking. It is important that these cobwebs be swept aside so as to leave no room for misunderstanding. There is no doubt that the volume of misunderstanding is considerable among the unthinking sections of the population.

The businessman is somewhat surprised that not only have we not expropriated his property but we have given him every encouragement and opportunity to expand his enterprise. Some doctrinaires are angered that we have not pulled down the house in the name of revolution.

The economic revival which I discussed has been contrived principally through the existing institutions of free enterprise. A number of persons in left wing organisations, trade unions, political parties and so forth on noticing this phenomenon have expressed dissatisfaction. It is sometimes alleged in these quarters that the P.A.P. has moved away from its revolutionary ideas. I want to examine these allegations in some detail and in so doing to clarify the economic policy of the P.A.P. Government.

Some persons who call themselves socialists almost regard as an axiom that when a socialist government assumes power it must set about the task of socialising the means of production. In

simple words this means nationalising private business. What is the P.A.P. policy on this? Did we say to the electorate that we intended to nationalise private business and on assumption to office go back on our words?

All the evidence points to the contrary. In the series of electoral statements which have been compiled in a volume entitled "The Tasks Ahead - P.A.P.'s 5-Year Plan - 1959-64", the chapter dealing with economic policy states quite clearly that the industrialisation programme will be achieved through the institution of private ownership and free enterprise. We even went to the extent of stating our stand towards foreign businessmen, and I quote from page 25 of Part I of the "The Tasks Ahead":

"Foreign business concerns which wish to establish factories in Singapore will be given all the encouragement and assistance they need. We shall give them guarantees in regard to security of capital, remittance of dividends and other matters which all modern governments regard as normal practice".

In the Fourth Anniversary Celebration Souvenir number of the Party published as early as 1958, it was made quite clear that we have not the slightest intention on assumption of office to go for nationalisation. May I quote from page 14 of the Souvenir number:

"The first and most obvious conclusion we can draw is that the scope of realising socialism in Singapore is narrow. The entrepot trade cannot be socialised. Such factories as we now have are hardly worth nationalising and they should remain in private ownership.

What is required in the next few years is a substantial expansion of manufacturing industries. How is this to take place? It is obvious that private enterprise should be given the maximum encouragement to establish new factories in order to provide employment for our increasing population".

Nothing could be clearer than that we have been consistent in our actions and that our present policies date back from unequivocal statements made before the elections to the public and to the electorate. It is therefore absolute nonsense to say that we have deviated from our previous intentions.

How can our policies be distinguished from those of a non-socialist government? The answer to this question can be set out both in terms of general principles and in relation to the specific problems facing Singapore. In countries emerging from colonial rule, an immense amount remains to be done to bring about equality of opportunity, in the abolition of unearned privilege, in the attack on the evils of poverty and ignorance and generally in laying the foundations of a more just social order. It can redress the imbalance between the working class and the employers which in the colonial regime was tipped strongly against the workers. Under the colonial regime, many persons had their opportunities limited through no fault of their own. In Singapore we know how circumscribed were the opportunities for useful careers open to those who did not receive an English language education. We have also seen how the P.A.P. Government has brought about greater and more equal opportunities for those who have been to the middle schools and Nanyang University.

A socialist government would not merely bring about equality of opportunities between groups and classes in the country. It would also try to expand opportunities for all to exercise their abilities to the full for the benefit of society. In Singapore this is a most urgent problem because of our rapid population growth and the prospect of mounting unemployment.

A right wing government would view this not with alarm but with delight. For increasing unemployment must sap the strength of the working class movement by reducing the bargaining power of organised labour. When this happens then wages will go down, exploitation of workers intensified and profits increase. A Right-wing government would therefore feel no urgency about expanding the economy and increasing employment opportunities through industrialisation. It will leave the free play of economic forces to produce the

desired adjustment, which will be to the benefit of employers and the detriment of workers.

A socialist government, on the other hand, views the prospect of increasing unemployment with grave anxiety and will strain itself to the utmost to avoid this situation. The expansion of the economy however means that money will have to be found somehow to finance those additional economic and industrial services and facilities which are needed. A socialist government will get the money through taxation in such a way that those who can afford to pay taxes share the greatest responsibility. Therefore by fiscal measures wealth is withdrawn from those who are better off and put to uses for the benefit of the whole society.

All this can be done within the framework of private ownership of industry. In the modern state, the instruments of regulation that have been developed in so many countries have become both varied and refined. They can be used for any number of purposes according to the policy of the government of the day. For instance, they can be used for the purpose of preparation for war in support of aggression against other countries. Or they may be designed to enrich those who are already rich and impoverish those who are poor. Or they may be used both to increase the national wealth and to redress gross inequalities in its distribution without at the same time destroying the incentives to effort and enterprise which sustain the functioning of the system of private ownership.

## Review of Expenditure in 1960

## Review of Expenditure in 1960

Review of Expenditure in 1960

Mr Speaker, Sir, from this long but necessary dissertation on basic principles, I now turn to more mundane affairs. In fact I turn to a review of Government expenditure and revenue in 1960. The 1960 Estimates were framed on the basis of expenditure being in the neighbourhood of $275.3 million and revenue at $269.2 million. In other words, there would have been a deficit of $6 million to be paid from cash reserves during the year. In addition to

estimated expenditure, the Assembly was asked during 1960, to approve Supplementary Estimates of $2.5 million, $200,000 of which was met from savings, making a net additional expenditure of $2.3 million. Thus, the total estimated expenditure for 1960 was $277.8 million and the estimated deficit was increased to $8.5 million. This sets the picture out in so far as Estimates are concerned. However, there is the question of ability to fulfil these Estimates and here there is some doubt as to the possibility of spending $277 million this year. The main reason for this can be said to be that the machinery of Government in 1959 - in fact commencing from the latter half of 1958 - was severely curtailed in its activities because of restrictions imposed on expenditure due to the decline of economic activity in the State and the slight world recession in trade.

This is evidenced by the total expenditure over the various quarters of the years concerned. In the first quarter of 1959, total expenditure was $50.9 million; for the second quarter, $57.7 million; for the third quarter, $52.0 million, and for the fourth quarter, $54.6 million. In 1960, the downward trend continued but there are now signs of improvement. About $50.0 million was spent in the first quarter; $52.0 million in the second quarter; $54.0 million in the third quarter and it is estimated that $65.0 million excluding a transfer of $20 million to the Development Fund would be spent in the fourth quarter. This, however, still gives a shortfall of about $30 million on the total budgetted expenditure for the year.

It may also be noted that total expenditure never does keep up with the Estimates, there being time lags in payments, delays in fulfilling orders, difficulties of recruitment, or planning and implementation problems. For instance, from 1950 to 1958, total expenditure had never exceeded total estimates except in 1954 when $240.5 million was voted and $248.9 million spent and it was only in 1951 and 1952 that estimates were nearly achieved by

actual expenditure. For the rest, expenditure fell short of estimates and in 1955 and 1953 under-expenditure was $32.8 million and $40.7 million respectively.

So far the general picture has been given. Now with regard to the details of under-expenditure. The following is an indication, Ministry by Ministry, of under-expenditure against the 1960 Estimates. The Prime Minister's Ministry has underspent to the extent of $3.6 million. The main reason for this is the fact that Rural Board works on roads and building constructions have been delayed by a lack of engineering staff. In addition, about $1½ million will not be spent by the Public Works Department because of lack of engineers and architects to supervise maintenance work for which an estimate of $6.8 million was made in the Budget. Roughly only $5½ million will be spent. In this connection, it must be stated that though every effort is being made to bring the establishment of the Public Works Department to strength, there are still deficiencies in a number of senior posts which cannot be filled substantively since experienced men are not available. The Ministry of Health will underspend to the extent of $6.8 million. The large under-expenditures occur under Personal Emoluments where it has been extremely difficult to recruit professional medical officers and specialists and where there have been substantial delays in recruiting and training of ancillary staff. Then, under Special Expenditure, there has been a drop in Hospitals Board and Tan Tock Seng Hospital's expenditure because of the shortages of staff referred to above. The Government is now taking action to recruit overseas trained personnel to strengthen the establishment of the Ministry of Health and it is hoped that under these conditions, the Ministry will be able fully to perform its functions.

Under the Ministry of Finance, under-expenditure of about $7.4 million will occur in 1960, the main reason being that it was not necessary to seek loan money to such an extent as was envisaged. $2 million therefore remains unspent on account of the Public Debt. In addition, Pensions, Retiring Allowances and Gratuities amounted to only $16.6

million as against the estimate of $18.6 million, there being smaller pensions payable than have been estimated for, thus affecting both commutations of gratuities and rates of pensions payable. Finally, it is estimated that because of stricter controls on travelling and courses, fellowships and scholarships abroad, expenditure under the head "Ministry of Finance" would be smaller than expected. There has also been staff re-organisations so that it has been possible to keep down the cost of the votes providing for replacement of officers under training, on short leave, sick leave, etc. There has been some slight under-expenditure in the Accountant-General's and the Inland Revenue Departments totalling roughly $200,000 and these are accounted almost completely for by the shortage of personnel in Division I of the Public Service. With regard to the Ministry of Labour and Law, there will be a very small under-expenditure of about $½ million and this is accountable almost completely by more careful administration of residential institutions, community centres, creches as well as stricter investigation of all claims for public assistance.

In the Ministry of Culture, under-expenditure will be also very small, roughly $400,000. This is due to under-expenditure in the Broadcasting Division as well as the Printing Division because of a more careful distribution of work and better and more efficient organisation of facilities. Under the Ministry of Home Affairs, about $2½ million will not be spent. This is mainly due to under-expenditure on the Defence Services because of the abolition of the M.A.A.F. and delays in recruitment and problems of obtaining seconded personnel to the Singapore Military Forces. Also $1.2 million will not be spent from Police votes because of vacancies in senior appointments, difficulties in recruiting constables of the higher standards now laid down and delays in fulfilling requisitions for equipment and furnishings. Finally, there will be about $5.3 million underspent for Education because of controls on grants-in-aid

payments and appointments of teachers where it has not been possible to recruit qualified personnel.

## Revenue in 1960

## Revenue in 1960

Revenue in 1960

Of the principal items of revenue, income tax yield is estimated at $75 million for 1960 as against the provisional estimate of $65 million at the beginning of the year. At the beginning of the year, it was expected that the slightly less favourable trading conditions would result in lower incomes and lower income tax collections. This increase is attributable to more energetic measures being taken in following up assessments and ensuring speedy collection and the policy to deal with the large assessments at once leaving the smaller assessments to later in the year.

As against the estimated revenue of $43.1 million in respect of tobacco duty, the collections up to the end of October amounted to $33.2 million and it is likely that the end of the year figures will show collections about $3 million below the original estimates. This is in the main due to a change in consumer habits away from foreign imported brands of cigarettes and tobacco to locally manufactured products. The rate of duty on these is smaller. There was also a switch in use by manufacturers from cut rag to tobacco leaf, the rate of duty on the latter being lower.

Petroleum revenue was estimated at $40.4 million. Figures for the first ten months indicate that the actual revenue will be in the region of $38 million, a shortfall of $2.4 million. This year's collection will, however, be higher than the actual revenue of $34.2 million in 1959. The revenue estimates will not be reached partly due to the lower petrol consumption of smaller cars which are more popular nowadays. There has also been an increasing tendency for taxis to switch from petrol to diesel fuel.

Liquor revenue was originally estimated at $23.5 million and this would probably be realised. There has been an increase in demand for imported beer at the expense of imported spirits and local beer but the overall production at the two local breweries has exceeded the

previous year's figure. The anticipated revenue of $7 million for Entertainment Duty this year is likely to be achieved by the end of the year.

As against an estimate of $4 million on taxes on totalisators and sweepstakes, the actual collections for the first ten months amounted to $4.7 million and it is anticipated that the original estimate will be exceeded by $1.2 million by the end of the year. The intensification of the war on bookmakers has resulted in higher takings on the tote, thereby increasing the amount payable to the revenue. Stamp Duty was estimated at $3.8 million but there is likely to be a shortfall of $½ million. As against this, Estate Duty may yield an excess of $400,000 over the estimated figure of $4 million.

## Surplus for 1960

## Surplus for 1960

Surplus for 1960

The main revenue sources I have mentioned will, in the aggregate, achieve an excess of $5.7 million as compared with the original estimates. There was, in addition, a welcome addition to our funds which was not provided for last year. The Government of the Federation of Malaya agreed to commence the repayment of the $30 million loan made by the Singapore Government in 1954. This repayment is not due until 1964 at the earliest. However, in view of the extremely strong financial position of the Federation Government, we made a request to them that the $30 million loan be repaid earlier than scheduled, in three annual instalments of $10 million each. The Federation Minister of Finance took a very sympathetic view of our request which was based on our urgent need for development finance. I am sure Members will join me in expressing our appreciation of the sympathetic manner with which the Federation Government met our request for early repayment.

By the accounting convention regulating Government accounts, which is conducted on a cash basis, the $10 million capital repayment was credited to the revenue account. This has enabled the revenue to exceed the estimates by nearly $16 million. The result of combined under-expenditure and revenue excess is that the year 1960 is likely to end in a

substantial surplus of $37 million. Expenditure should stand at $248 million and revenue at $285 million. Even after taking into account the capital receipt of the loan repayment, a sizable surplus still remains in the Ordinary Estimates.

Insofar as this surplus is the result of strict control of expenditure exercised by the Government, the position is gratifying. But there is another reason for under-expenditure which is less welcome. This is the inability of departments to realise their special expenditure items. Such expenditure requires a fairly prolonged period of preparation and planning. This is especially true of public work and construction. Owing to the shortages of Engineers, Architects, Surveyors and other technical staff, much of this construction work could not be initiated early enough this year for completion and payment during the year.

These bottlenecks to expenditure have, as I stated before, given grounds for anxiety. It is apparent that there must be a review of policy in regard to methods of preparation, planning and supervision of special expenditure and development projects. The Government has already set up a Commission to enquire into the capacity of the building trade. This Commission has submitted its preliminary findings and has made a number of valuable proposals in regard to the organisation of Government Departments concerned in building and construction. These are under examination.

The Government intends to strengthen the technical personnel of the Public Works Department by recruitment or secondment from overseas countries. We are holding discussions with the United Kingdom Commission, Commonwealth and consular representatives of various overseas governments to obtain their assistance in this matter. The first result of this policy has come to light only a few days ago. Last week a team of six Japanese Engineers and Industrial Planners arrived in Singapore. These were appointed by the Japanese Government, at the request of the Singapore Government for assistance in making

physical plans for the Jurong Industrial Estate. It is likely that we shall make use of technical assistance of this kind from overseas countries for several of the major projects entered in our Development Plan. The Government is also considering other methods whereby our shortage of experienced technical staff may be overcome. There is the possibility of more extensive use of Consulting Engineers and the adoption of the system of international tenders for design and construction for major projects. By such methods, it is hoped that the substantial volume of construction work, which will have to be undertaken in the next four years, can be successfully undertaken.

## The 1961 Expenditure Estimates

## The 1961 Expenditure Estimates

The 1961 Expenditure Estimates

I will now deal with the 1961 Estimates. First the Ordinary Expenditure. By far the most important feature of the 1961 Budget is the inclusion within it of monies for Government to undertake all functions, other than those of the public utilities now performed by the City Council. In the People's Action Party manifesto, the intention of abolishing the politically separate entities of the City Council and Rural Board has been stated as one of the planks of the Party platform. Over the past 12 months, therefore, administrative arrangements have been gradually unfolding to provide for the absorption of the local government functions into those of the State. It is now possible to take the final step which will completely merge in all respects these organisations into the Central Government. The Budget has, therefore, been framed on this basis and in 1961 all monies payable to the Municipal Consolidated Rate Fund will now come to the Government, except for those specifically allocated to the public utilities functions of the City Council.

With regard to the Rural Board, the procedure is much simpler since Government financed the difference between revenue and expenditure by means of an annual contribution and it has meant amalgamating physically the Rural

Board estimates into those of Government Departments which will undertake its work. Following on this, all the facilities provided by the City Council and Rural Board have got to be undertaken by Government. Wherever possible, similar facilities undertaken by Government have been reorganised or expanded to take into account new undertakings in the city and rural areas. It has resulted, in some instances, in considerable savings in expenditure due to the possibility of removing duplication or, in some instances, a slight expansion of Government facilities with a withdrawal of the cost of the Local Government function. However, certain administrative difficulties are bound to arise, the main of which are those relating to personnel and finance. There are the problems of maintaining the same status and terms and conditions of service of City Council employees within the Government framework. Since about 8,000 employees are concerned, this is a question of some magnitude. However, there have been established working parties to go into these problems and their reports which take into account organisational and establishment aspects of integration with regard to staff matters are now under consideration by Government. Negotiations will commence with the respective staff associations to work out an equitable means of absorption of City Council employees into Government. There is no intention to reduce salaries, retrench staff or generally vary terms and conditions of service. However, a large measure of "give and take" will be necessary since two relatively separate structures are being interwoven into a pattern of Central Government organisation. On the financial side, the main problems are what one would call "accounting difficulties". The City Council has run its budget on an accrual basis, i.e., income and expenditure were the basis of the accounting system. Government, however, runs its accounts on a cash basis and frames its budget on receipts and payments. The two systems are quite incompatible and it has been necessary to

make a number of accounting adjustments to provide for the gradual transfer of the accrual to the cash basis. Fortunately, in this respect there has been time and with the advice of three experts loaned by the Canadian Government, it has been possible to devise a satisfactory compromise which will come into operation on the 1st January, 1961. It will be possible therefore to operate a Budget which takes into account the new Integrated Departments though still acknowledging that certain procedures will have to be continued with the City Council techniques. There will, for instance, have to remain the entity of a Municipal Provident Fund and contributions will have to continue until such time as an amicable and workable arrangement has been resolved with regard to the retiring benefits of City Council employees. However, it is hoped that during 1961 most of these problems will have been resolved and consolidation of the local government functions into the Central Government sphere will be accomplished in time for the 1962 Budget which could be in all senses a Central Government Budget of the State of Singapore.

So much for the integration of the Local Governments into the Central Government. Now for the more specific increases in expenditure on account of Government Departments in 1961. The total estimated expenditure for what could be called "Government Departments" will be $308.5 million, an increase of $33.2 million over the 1960 Estimates. By far the largest and most important increases have occurred under the Ministry of Health ($6.5 million), the Ministry of Finance ($16.8 million), the Ministry of Labour and Law ($4.5 million) and the Ministry of Education ($2.8 million). The large increases in the Ministry of Health are due to two important changes in the Budget. The first is the necessity to provide in the Budget now for Hospitals' Board's expenditure and the expenditure formerly incurred by the Tan Tock Seng Hospital Corporation. Both these organisations have been abolished and the Ministry of Health now undertakes the

direct administration of the two organisations. The reasons for this have already been explained and could be summarised in one word as "organisational" though also the question of the responsibility for health services resting with the Minister for Health and not with these independent organisations was also another valid reason.

The revenue and expenditure of these two bodies will now be part of the Government account. An addition of roughly $3 million which was before found from the Hospitals Board's and Tan Tock Seng Hospital revenue will now have to be provided as expenditure from Government because these revenues will be paid straight into the Consolidated Fund and cannot be netted against expenditure. In addition, there has also been an increase in estimated Hospitals Board's expenditure by about $3 million for 1961. The same procedure would have to be applied for Tan Tock Seng Hospital where the whole expenditure is now shown under the Ministry of Health though in fact here the increase is much smaller since only $100,000 or so of Tan Tock Seng Hospital's revenue has got to be met from Government funds. There is also an increase in estimated expenditure on personal emoluments by about $2½ million because of the increase in nursing staff and ancillary medical workers, the total number of new posts being roughly 300. There have been relatively small increases in the professional grades since it is proposed to fill existing vacancies before new posts are created. The total number of Divisions I and II new posts is 50.

The large increase in the Ministry of Finance is due to two factors: one is the increased contribution of $10 million towards the Development Fund. As stated before in the revenue estimates, there is expected to be a payment of $10 million by the Federation of Malaya towards repayment of the $30 million loan made to it by Singapore in 1954. There has been a first payment of $10 million this year and there will be a final payment of $10 million in 1962. It is essential that

what is virtually a capital payment should not be dissipated on recurrent expenditure. However, because of the limitations of the Constitution, it is necessary that this windfall payment be made direct into the Consolidated Fund. The only way to transfer it out to the Development Fund is by means of the Contribution towards Development vote under the Ministry of Finance or by Supplementary Estimates under the Development Fund Ordinance, both ways are legally permissible. It is therefore felt that the Contribution towards Development under Head 28, Subhead 53 of the Ordinary Estimates should be increased from the normal $20 million to $30 million. This is an indication of the importance Government attaches to the expansion of economic development and industrialisation of the State. The other increases are due to $2 million being provided as an Advance Account to enable the Pubic Works Department to make forward purchases for the integrated City Engineer's Department; $2.8 million for the Public Debt and $2 million for Pensions, Retirement Allowances, etc.

Another significant increase in the Estimates is the Ministry of Labour and Law's provision of $3½ million for the Work Brigade and the Industrial Arbitration Court. The functions of the Work Brigade have also been explained when the 1960 Budget was introduced in this Assembly. Members were told of the provision of $7 million as unemployment relief works to be executed through the Work Brigade. Already a large number of labour intensive projects have started. The establishment of camps has already taken place and recruitment and training of the Brigade is taking place. There is now available a core of experienced and hardworking personnel available to Government to undertake some of the more intensive labour projects of the development programme. A Director has recently been appointed who will now co-ordinate the administrative and technical aspects of the Brigade. It is no longer felt that the provision for

the Work Brigade should be regarded as a developmental expenditure and therefore the monies are being provided in the ordinary Estimates under the Ministry for the administration of the Brigade and expenditure on its projects.

Another very significant development is the establishment of the Industrial Arbitration Court. The Court has already begun to function and in time will take its place as one of the major pillars of the State ensuring industrial peace with justice. The total cost is estimated at about $100,000. Then there will be an increase of about $1 million for expenditure on public assistance and the development and integration of community associations. The latter is now being firmly pursued through the People's Association. A large number of community centres have been built and work on providing integration and development is being pushed ahead. With regard to public assistance, with the improved tempo of economic activity in the State and more careful scrutiny and investigation of claims, it will be possible to keep expenditure within reasonable bounds and therefore only a small increase is contemplated for 1961. Finally, there is the large increase of the Ministry of Education of $2.8 million for new posts of teachers and expansion of educational facilities in the State. It will be seen that about 880 new posts are being provided to the Ministry and the largest number of these will be about 680 teachers in Division II. The next largest increase will be ancillary staff to maintain and upkeep school compounds and buildings. In all about 150 Division IV employees will be appointed next year. Other significant developments are the sums of money provided for scholarships and fellowships and over $1 million more for the University of Malaya. There will be further increases to provide for more science facilities and teaching equipment.

It will be seen, therefore, that 1961 will be a year of considerable expansion in the basic facilities provided to the

public, both in the economic and social spheres. It will be a year when more rational expenditure of public funds should occur. It will also be a year when larger calls will be made on the Government machinery to expand and develop the already existing facilities. It will be a year when Government itself will have to carry the new responsibilities of providing the facilities which were previously provided by the local Governments.

## Development Plan

## Development Plan

Development Plan

The first draft of the Development Plan was completed in June this year and some of the details had been published. Since then, the Singapore Government has approached the U.K. Government and the World Bank for financial assistance in financing the Development Plan. The World Bank sent its mission to Singapore last month. The results of discussions with the U.K. Government are known. Though the amount that we obtained by way of assistance in loans and grants is not as much as we had hoped for, nevertheless this would be a useful addition to our resources.

It had been my intention to publish the Development Plan at about the same time as the Estimates. Unfortunately, circumstances prevented this. It was necessary to amend the Plan in the light of discussions with the World Bank, the U.K. Government and the U.N. experts. The work involved in making these amendments and adjustments throughout the Plan to preserve consistency is both intricate and considerable. At the same time, the staff engaged in this work had to meet many other urgent calls on their time such as preparing material for the U.N. experts and the World Bank team and arranging their programme of work in Singapore so that their expertise and energies may be used to the best advantage in the short time they are here. The result has been a delay in finalising the details of the Plan.

I wish to emphasize that the Plan itself deals only with capital expenditure by the Government and public authorities, such as the Trading Departments of the City Council, the Singapore Harbour

Board, the Singapore Telephone Board and the Housing Board. It does not take into account capital outlays in the private sector, for these, by and large, are something that cannot be forecast with any accuracy in Singapore.

So far as the capital outlays by the Central Government are concerned, the details for the period 1961-1964 appear in the Development Estimates. Both the expenditures provided for 1961 and the costs of completed projects are entered in the Development Estimates. I wish to emphasise that, in many instances, the total costs are provisional estimates and are subject to revision. Further, in the light of the financial position in the years to come, it may be necessary to revise either by way of amendment, deletion or addition the capital outlays entered in the Estimates. The Development Plan, therefore, is not a rigid programme of capital expenditure but objectives which we think, in the light of present circumstances, are attainable and desirable. They do not constitute authority for expenditure and, as I mentioned before, revisions will be made to the Plan from time to time.

It is not my intention here to go into the details of this Plan. When the report on the Plan is published, which I expect to be early next year, the public will be able to know exactly what we want to do, why we want to do it and what we expect to result from the Plan. But some broad indications of the magnitude of expenditure may be usefully made here.

The total capital expenditure for the Central Government is envisaged at $746.8 million for the years 1961-64. Of this, my own Ministry claims the largest share, $194.2 million. This consists of $100 million for the Economic Development Board and $93.7 million for developing the industrial site in Jurong, reclaiming land in the Kallang Swamp and other minor items.

The other major item of capital development is in public housing and no less than $203.1 million has been provisionally allotted to the Housing and Development Board.

Social services have staked their claims on our capital resources and both the Ministries of Education and Health have been allotted considerable sums, more than $100 million between them - for the construction of new schools, hospitals, clinics and so forth.

Apart from the expenditures of the Central Government, the Trading Departments of the City Council - soon to be integrated into a Public Utilities Board - have been allotted $147 million for the expansion of public utilities. The Harbour Board has in the course of execution capital expansion works which will amount to $18 million, while the Telephone Board plans to expand its services by $17.5 million. The total expenditure during 1961-64 therefore amounts to $929.2 million. It is expected, however, that some of these projects will not be completed during the Plan period and a reduction of $53.0 million is being allowed for. There is, therefore, a balance of $876.2 million that has to be provided by way of revenue surpluses, additional revenue, domestic loans and loans from overseas. It is not my intention here to enter into the details of how a development programme of this magnitude will be financed. I only want to develop two points. The first is what we hope to achieve by the development programme, and I also want to say something about the burden which the citizens of this country would have to shoulder to provide the resources to carry out the Plan.

The principal objective of the Plan is to promote a sustained growth of the economy, in particular to bring about industrial expansion at an accelerated rate. Thus, special attention is being paid to providing what is commonly known as the industrial infra-structure. This consists of the building of better communications, such as sea ports, roads, airports, railways, the provision of ample and cheap power and industrial water, and the development of an industrial estate of adequate size with all the facilities for the transportation and marketing of raw materials and finished products. In this way, capital expenditures of the Government would

induce and encourage investment of private capital both from local and overseas sources. I have already referred to the rate of industrial expansion now going on. If we have achieved so much with so little effort, there is every hope that if we increase the inducements and facilities for private capital investment, we have every chance to achieve a sufficiently high rate of growth to provide work for our growing population. Our present rate of industrial growth demonstrates that there are ample opportunities in Singapore and that there are persons with both capital and enterprise who are prepared to make use of these opportunities. This is one of our strongest assets which we should cultivate and encourage with care and attention.

## Revenue Proposals

## Revenue Proposals

Revenue Proposals

It is hardly necessary for me to explain that the State will not be able to carry out the development programme on a scale that we planned without further increases in revenue.

I have already explained that, in part, the surplus was due to the inability of departments to implement development projects for this year to the extent that had been allowed for. With the measures that we have in mind and which I have described, to strengthen the technical personnel in Government, this administrative bottleneck will be reduced and finally eliminated. Further, the surplus in Government accounts can be misleading, because of the separation of the Ordinary Estimates from the Development Estimates. If we take both estimates together, the picture is less attractive. Indeed, in the years to come when development expenditure gathers momentum, it is likely to be the case that our financial resources will be strained to the utmost.

In planning for the future, we cannot work on an annual basis, but must have regard to the total period of the Development Plan. In this respect, the calculation of available financial resources against anticipated expenditure will leave no room for complacency.

In the next four years the total expenditure on development is estimated at $876.0 million. The amount of money we can raise internally from loans, profits of public utilities, appropriations from the revenue and running down of reserves will provide no more than $500 million. About half this sum will be provided from appropriations from the revenue of the Central Government and from the trading profits of public utilities. The other half will be financed through loans, both long term and short term, which the Government proposes to float in Singapore. A substantial part of these loans will be taken up by the Central Provident Fund but banks, insurance companies and the general public are expected to take up the rest. The estimates of available finance are based on current rates of taxation. A gap of $376 million remains to be filled. Part of this, we expect, would come from loans from overseas. We have been promised by the U.K. Government a loan of $42.8 million. It may be possible to borrow more. There are other sources of finance available to us, such as the World Bank, the International Development Association, trade credits from suppliers of equipment and so forth.

We can hardly expect, however, for other Governments, the World Bank and other United Nation agencies to consider our applications for loans in a favourable light unless we ourselves have put in all the effort possible to help ourselves.

Singapore is still one of the most lightly taxed countries in the world. It is true that there are Colonies, such as Hongkong, Sarawak and North Borneo, where taxation is even lighter, but if we look around in the developing countries of Asia, we will find that their taxation rates are incomparably higher than ours. For instance, in India the rates of personal income tax go up to as high as 45 per cent in respect of income more than $15,000 per year together with a surcharge of 5 per cent and a supertax of 15 per cent. Above that there is the capital profits tax. And there are import duties and sales tax on a large range of goods.

In framing the new taxation proposals, the Government has four principal considerations in view. First, the new taxes should be borne by those who are enjoying the largest benefit from the expansion of the economy. Next, those who have been left out of the taxation orbit will be called upon to make their contribution. Thirdly, our taxation rates must have some relation to the tax structure in the Federation of Malaya. Finally, taxes should influence the use of our scarce resources, especially land, in such a way as to promote maximum economic advantage for the State.

With these in mind, the following new taxes will be introduced in the coming year:-

(1) Property Tax.

(2) Business Registration Tax.

(3) Stamp Duty on Import and Export Declarations.

(4) Increased assessment on Rubber Estates.

(5) Increased rates on Private Lotteries.

(6) Fees levied for the practice of certain professions.

(7) Passenger tax on embarking air travellers.

(8) Decrease in the rates of personal allowances on income tax and increase in the maximum rate of tax on personal income.

## Property Tax

## Property Tax

Property Tax

Because of the integration of the City Council with the Government, the Local Government Ordinance under which local rates are levied on land and houses in the city will no longer be enforceable. Similarly, on the abolition of the Rural Board, it will no longer be proper to levy rates in the rural areas. These rates are intended to finance services and utilities of equivalent value from the revenue so obtained. With integration, however, all expenditure is financed from the Consolidated Fund, so that individual items of revenue lose their identity in the pooling into the Consolidated Fund, from which all Government expenditure is met.

To replace these rates, it will be necessary to introduce a system of taxation. We will call this the property tax. This is not a new form of taxation but an amendment of existing ones to suit the changed circumstances. A Bill to carry them into effect has been introduced by me today. I will draw attention to some of the principal features of this Bill.

In the assessment of tax on properties, it is important that there must be some expectation of stability as regards rates of taxation so that persons, especially those intending to build new houses, can plan ahead in confidence. Hence it is proposed that the rates levied will be held constant for a period of three years. In the city area, it is not proposed to make any increase in the rates on property tax as compared with existing local rates.

In the rural areas, however, increases will be made depending on the extent to which these areas have been enjoying urban facilities, such as lighting, water, roads, sewerage and so forth. The lower rates for the rural areas are a relic of the past when large tracts of land outside the city awaited development. To induce such development, rates on property had been fixed at very low levels. No one can say that, with the acute pressure on the land, we can afford the luxury of low taxation rates in the rural areas. Further development of the rural areas will depend much more on the projects initiated by the Government than the unassisted effort of private individuals. Accordingly, rates on property tax in the rural areas will increase as the development of these areas proceeds apace.

It is, however, proposed that property tax on industrial establishments in the rural areas will not be increased beyond the present rates. The reason for providing industry with this inducement is obvious.

Another group of persons selected for favourable treatment are owner occupiers of property. The present practice does not distinguish between the rates

applicable to properties let out and properties occupied by the owner. However, in the assessment of annual values, owner-occupied properties are assessed on favourable terms. This practice is quite irregular and I propose to stop it. However, in order not to penalise owner occupiers of small properties, the rates of taxation on them will be fixed at less than the general rate. Owners of such properties are, by and large, persons of small means, who, by the exercise of thrift, have come to acquire their own homes. It is wrong that such persons should be penalised.

## Business Registration Tax

## Business Registration Tax

Business Registration Tax

The Government of the Federation of Malaya introduced the tax on business by way of a registration fee in 1953. As a result of subsequent opposition by a section of the business community, this tax was modified in 1956. The original registration fee was $100 to a maximum of $300 per annum for businesses in the cities and $25 to $75 for businesses in the countryside.

It is proposed to levy the following rates of annual fees for businesses in Singapore:- $ c. Sole proprietorships in the city area 50.00 Sole proprietorships in the rural area 12.50 Partnerships in the city area 100.00 Partnerships in the rural area 25.00 Public limited companies 1,000.00 Private limited companies 750.00

The reason for introducing this form of taxation is apparent. A large majority of small shopkeepers do not contribute whatsoever to the Inland Revenue. Further, if the proprietor is a man of abstemious habits, he does not even contribute to the liquor and tobacco tax. If he lives in a shop premise, as is usually the case, he does not own a motor car and hence does not contribute to the petroleum duty. Such persons are in a truly privileged position. Their children receive education, the cost of which the

State pays up to 98 per cent or more. If any member of his family falls ill, he can get free treatment or near free treatment in State hospitals or dispensaries. Further, they enjoy the full protection of law enforcement and public order. It is only equitable that he be called upon to make a contribution towards the cost of providing these benefits. Nor can it be said that the rates are unduly high. Hawkers' licensing fees are on the average much higher than the rates we are levying on sole proprietorships and partnerships. The yield from this business registration fee is expected to be about $2.0 million per year. A duty of $1,000 per year on limited companies can hardly be regarded as excessive. As against the unincorporated businesses, a limited company enjoys substantial benefits by way of limitation of the liability of shareholders. Most of these concerns are substantial businesses and this additional duty will bear lightly upon them. The tax yield is expected to be $1.5 million.

## Stamp Duty on Import and Export Declarations

## Stamp Duty on Import and Export Declarations

Stamp Duty on Import and Export Declarations

In Hongkong, there is a system of taxation on every declaration made by traders on imports and exports of goods. The tax is HK$1 per form. This seems to be an easy way of collecting money and I propose to introduce a similar tax in Singapore. The yield is expected to be $500,000 a year. It cannot be said that this will impose an intolerable burden on the business community, nor will this duty constitute an encroachment on the free port status of Singapore. The sum is small and the tax will be borne by large numbers of merchants.

## Increased assessment on rubber estates

## Increased assessment on rubber estates

Increased assessment on rubber estates

At present small holders pay an assessment of $8.00 (5 cents per tree) and a surcharge of $1.12 in respect of each acre of small holding. As regards the big estates, there is a tax which at present is 3¼ per cent ad valorem on the f.o.b. price of rubber and a surcharge of half a cent per pound for rubber research. The tax is assessed on production returns submitted by rubber

estates and is levied under the Rubber Estates Assessment Ordinance and the surcharge under the Rubber Estates (Surcharge) Ordinance. The Federation of Malaya imposes a duty on rubber exported from the port of shipment. Part of the levy goes towards research. A substantial part goes towards the replanting funds and there is an anti-inflationary cess which is steeply graduated with respect to rubber prices.

It is not possible to impose a similar export duty in Singapore because of the administrative difficulties stemming from our large entrepot trade in rubber. We are therefore proposing to increase the rates of assessment on big holdings to bring them approximately to rates in the Federation. The tax on estate production will be related to the price of rubber. Commencing with a rate of 3 per cent when the price is under 60 cents a lb., it will increase to 12 per cent when the price exceeds $1 per lb. There will be a 1 per cent increase for each 5 cent platform between these limits.

These rates of taxation are expected to equate to rates prevailing in the Federation of Malaya for similar prices of rubber. The present rates of taxation on rubber in Singapore are considerably lower than those in the Federation, especially at high prices of rubber. Considering that land in Singapore can often be put to better use than for rubber plantations, the present rates of taxation are unrealistically low. It is also proposed to increase the rate of assessment on small holdings from the present 5 cents per tree to 15 cents per tree. This is the maximum rate provided for in the Rubber Estates Assessment Ordinance. At this new rate small holders will be virtually paying tax at a price of rubber of 65 cents per lb. This is arrived at on the basis of an average stand of 160 trees per acre producing about 250 lb, to the acre.

In order to discourage the use of land in rubber planting in Singapore, it is proposed to levy a tax on land under immature rubber at the rate of $35 per acre per year.

The annual increase in revenue from all these measures is estimated at $400,000.

## Increased rates on Private Lotteries

## Increased rates on Private Lotteries

Increased rates on Private Lotteries

There is a machine in use in Singapore known as the one-arm bandit. The purpose of the machine is to ensnare optimistic persons to part with their money. In spite of the fact that the odds are greatly against the player, the patronage of one-arm bandits increases year by year. In 1955, the Government proposed to tax these machines at the rate of 20 per cent on 150 per cent of the net takings. As a result of vociferous protests, the tax was reduced to 20 per cent on 137 per cent of the net takings. It is now proposed that the tax should be increased to 30 per cent on 137 per cent of the net takings. Besides this there is the matter of private sweepstakes. These pay a duty of 20 per cent, while the Singapore Turf Club pays 30 per cent. There is no justification for this discrimination and it is proposed to increase the rate on private sweepstakes to 30 per cent. The additional revenue from these measures is expected to be $150,000.

## Fees levied on certain professions

## Fees levied on certain professions

Fees levied on certain professions

The present rates of fees paid by professional persons in private practice are extremely low. For instance, an advocate and solicitor pays an initial fee totalling $84 and a $50 annual fee, a doctor pays an annual fee of $40 but no registration fee, a dentist pays a $20 initial fee and a $50 annual fee and a pharmacist pays a $5 initial fee and a $20 annual fee. Neither accountants nor quantity surveyors, nor engineers pay any registration fee or annual fee. Architects pay an initial registration fee of $100 and an annual fee of $75 to their Board. It is time that the different treatment enjoyed by various professional persons be placed on a rational basis. It is proposed that, with the exception of pharmacists, all the above categories of professional persons in private practice be required to pay an initial registration fee of $250 and a quarterly fee of $125. For pharmacists,

the initial registration fee will be $100 and the quarterly fee $5. An additional revenue of about $1 million is expected. The professional associations have been consulted in regard to the levy of these fees.

What is the justification for raising fees to the scales proposed, apart from the tidying up effect? It could be argued that since these persons are in short supply, to require them to pay additional fees would be contrary to public policy, since it might reduce the supply forthcoming. There might be some grounds for this argument if the fees proposed were penal, say, if they were fixed at ten times the sums proposed. It is a well-known fact that the earnings of professionals in private practice are so substantial that the additional fees required of them will not either materially reduce the attractiveness of their trade or impose an intolerable burden upon them. The argument in favour of these fees rests on two points. First, with the expansion of the economy which the Government expenditure is intended to bring about, these professionals are likely to enjoy immediate benefits much more than other sections of the community. They have never had it so good; and in the years to come they will have it even better. A small extra contribution from them is therefore not inequitable.

The second argument rests on the disparity in incomes between persons in private practice and those in the Government Service. This is only partially redressed by the higher income tax they pay.

## Passenger tax on embarking air travellers

## Passenger tax on embarking air travellers

Passenger tax on embarking air travellers

Nearly all international airports in the world charge a small sum on embarking passengers. Singapore proposes to follow this sensible practice. The Government has borne the entire share in the maintenance of services at the airport and a substantial part of its development expenditure. It is only just that those who may use all these facilities contribute towards the cost. It is proposed, therefore, to levy a small fee not exceeding ten dollars in respect of passengers

embarking on overseas flights and $1 per head for those travelling to the Federation of Malaya and the Borneo territories. Discussions will be held by the Director of Civil Aviation with interested parties. These sums are trivial in comparison to the cost of fares and there is no reason to expect a diminution in the popularity of air travel as a consequence. Transit passengers will not, of course, be charged this tax. A sum of $1 million is expected to be collected per year.

## Decrease in the rates of personal allowances on income tax and increase in the maximum rate of tax on personal income

## Decrease in the rates of personal allowances on income tax and increase in the maximum rate of tax on personal income

Decrease in the rates of personal allowances on income tax and increase in the maximum rate of tax on personal income

Last year the Federation Government lowered the personal allowances of an individual from $3,000 to $2,000 and that for the wife from $2,000 to $1,000. Bearing in mind that income tax rates between the two territories should not differ substantially, it is proposed to follow the rates introduced by the Federation last year. The Federation also increased the maximum rate of tax on individuals by 5 per cent, from 40 per cent to 45 per cent. It is proposed to do likewise in Singapore and increase the maximum rate to 55 per cent on incomes above $100,000 per year.

The limitation in the number of children eligible for relief to four as against eight will not be adopted and it is proposed to continue to give relief to children at the present rate up to a maximum of eight children.

While reducing the general rates of relief, I propose to introduce for the benefit of the majority of tax payers a personal income relief in respect of earned income. It is proposed to give a relief of 20 per cent of earned income subject to a limit of $1,000.

This is an important innovation which we are making in our tax laws, that is to distinguish between income earned as a result of personal exertions and income accruing from the ownership of property. It is only just and proper that income earned through the effort of one's brain or brawn should be taxed more lightly than property income. For

the worker - be it through physical or intellectual effort or both - makes a current contribution to the wealth of the nation, while the property-owner lives off his past efforts or the efforts of his ancestors.

Now let me give some broad details of the operation of these changes. The reduction of personal allowances means that more people are brought into the tax orbit. It also means that those who are already paying taxes have to pay higher rates. But the earned income relief diminishes the impact of reductions of personal reliefs, more particularly for those with smaller incomes.

Thus, without earned income relief, a working bachelor earning more than $2,000 a year or $170 per month has to pay tax. Earned income relief raises the minimum level to $2,400 a year as against the present level of $3,000 a year. A married couple without children who would pay tax at an income of $3,000 a year without earned income relief does not do so until their income from work goes above $3,800 a year when their tax liability is only $2 per year. A family dependent on a worker with three children - and this is the average family in Singapore - does not have to pay tax until their income reaches $6,000 a year or $500 per month. They then pay a tax of $12.50 a year. No one can say that the changes we propose to the income tax structure imposes any hardship upon the poor or that we are asking any person to pay tax that he cannot afford.

A word about the extra yield of these new tax rates. People not paying tax but who would now be required to do so would contribute an additional $¾ million a year. Present tax payers would contribute the bulk of additional revenue, that is another $3¼ million, giving an expected increase of $4 million a year.

The additional revenue from new taxes and changes in existing rates will amount to about $10.5 million. Perhaps some of those who will pay these taxes may regard these additional calls on their pockets as unnecessary impositions. But the additional taxes, as all

taxes garnered by this Government, will be returned to the people in the form of schools, hospitals, new industries, lighting and other amenities. Every cent collected from the people will be used to make life better for the people.

Some people assume that the Government can create out of thin air the money needed to provide the many services the people demand. The Government is not wealthy in its own right. It is not a private company of individuals but a body of men elected by the people to perform certain duties. It has to pay for the many services it is called upon to do and the money for them must be provided by the people by way of taxes. A bad government will dissipate these resources by mismanagement and corruption. A good government will see to it that the people get the best value for their taxes.

In distributing the burden of new taxes, the P.A.P., as a socialist Government, has ensured that the taxes will be shared among many people in proportion to their ability to pay. Of the eight tax increases, seven do not at all affect the lower income group. The proposals relating to income tax again fall very lightly on the wage earner. Of the $10.5 million new taxes only $¾ million will come directly from bachelors earning less than $310 a month or an average family earning less than $500 per month.

Therefore taking the tax proposals broadly, it can be said that it is those who are better off, such as air-travellers, shop-proprietors, import and export firms, professionals in private practice, who have been asked to make a small extra contribution to the cost of generating prosperity for all.

At the same time, care has been taken not to blunt incentives to effort by the imposition of penal rates of taxation.

Before concluding my statement I wish to bring up the subject of variable allowances, a matter closely connected with the previous budget. Members will recollect that certain reductions of these allowances were made in respect of the upper income brackets in the Civil Service. A professional allowance ranging from $75 p.m. to $225 p.m. was subsequently introduced to keep Government rates of pay for technical and professional officers at a competitive level as against pay rates in business. The justification for the reduction of variable allowances lies in the serious financial position we faced on assuming office.

Now that the position is less grim, should not the Government reconsider its stand? There are many factors to be considered. First, recruitment to nearly all grades, except professional grades in short supply, proceeds satisfactorily at the rates of pay we now offer. In the years to come, as the increasing supply of students emerge from our schools and universities, the Government as an employer will find it an even easier job of recruiting into the public service. As regards the professional grades in short supply, they cannot be obtained from local sources in adequate numbers for some time whatever the pay, and we must look overseas as we are now doing.

Then we have to consider the additional taxes that the public has to pay. It was the contention of the Staff Side that the cuts in variable allowances were justified only if the general public was called upon to shoulder the burden by financial stringency. With these new taxes, this argument of the Unions no longer holds good, if indeed it ever held good at any time.

These two considerations therefore lead irresistibly to the conclusion that there should be no revision of rates of variable allowances. But the fact remains that the Government has successfully ridden the financial troubles of the early days and it must therefore make a reappraisal of the issue of variable allowances. I am therefore willing to

have negotiations commenced for a partial restitution of the variable allowances. In doing so, may I warn against undue optimism that any large scale raids into the public purse will be allowed? To restore variable allowances to the full would mean that practically the whole yield of additional revenue would be eaten up at one fell stroke. The Treasury will not allow this to: happen and it will have public opinion on its side. The Government employees cannot expect more than a modest restoration of pay cuts. Further, as the quantum is one that has extensive repercussions on the financial structure of the State and its capacity to finance development expenditure, the Government considers that this is a matter of public policy and is not an issue that can be submitted to arbitration. With these provisos, I welcome the commencement of negotiations and will ask my Ministry officials to invite the Staff Unions to start these soon.

It remains for me to express my appreciation of the various officials both in the Central Government and the City Council whose sustained endeavours have resolved many intricate problems or financial integration to enable me to present this first integrated set of Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure. The Government Printer too deserves our thanks for a neat job of work.

Sir, I beg to move.

Sir George Oehlers (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That the Assembly approves the financial policy of the Government for the year 1961." In accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 83, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed, what day?

Dr Goh Keng Swee

**Dr Goh Keng Swee:**

Dr Goh Keng Swee: December the 8th.

Sir George Oehlers (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: I suspend this sitting, and shall take this Chair again at 5.35 p.m.

## Sitting accordingly suspended at

Sitting accordingly suspended at

## 5.05 p.m. until 5.35 p.m.

5.05 p.m. until 5.35 p.m.
