# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1965-12-13
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Mr Lim Kim San (Minister for Finance); Mr A. P. Rajah (Mr Speaker);

---

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

2.57 p.m.

Mr Lim Kim San (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Mr Lim Kim San):**

The Minister for Finance (Mr Lim Kim San): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

That the Assembly approves the financial policy of the Government for the year 1966.

Mr Speaker, Sir, it is my privilege to present the first Budget of the independent Republic of Singapore to this House today. The events which led to the separation of Singapore from Malaysia are still fresh in our memories. I would not dwell on them, except to say that whilst independence has brought about an immediate relief from the frustration of being governed by a hostile Central Government and given us greater freedom of action in the field of international relations, as well as restoration of control over fiscal, monetary and economic policies, we also acquire new responsibilities and new dimensions are added to our problems.

Sir, it is my duty, as Finance Minister, to take a dispassionate and searching look at Singapore's position today and mark the steps we should take to ensure, first, our survival, and second, our prosperity.

## Basic Problem

Basic Problem

My predecessor has never failed to remind us that basically our problem stems from our large and increasing population living in a small island with no natural resources. The entrepot trade on which we thrived and prospered in the past is not expanding fast enough to provide the jobs for the increasing population, nor is it capable of generating sufficient revenue to maintain the level of education, housing, medical and welfare services that a modern civilised society expects. Hence, five years ago we charted the course for industrialisation to complement entrepot trade.

## Entrepot Trade and industrialisation

Entrepot Trade and industrialisation

Our policy will have to be the maintenance of our traditional position as a trading centre, whilst adding an industrial base to our traditional economy.

Industrialisation and entrepot trade are not incompatible as has been shown in Rotterdam and Hamburg. The needs and requirements for an entrepot trade within an industrialised country can be met by the creation of a free trade zone. It is not the Government's intention to levy duties on goods not produced and not likely to be produced in Singapore. Thus, traditional imports of products such as rubber, copra, pepper and so on, will not attract duty. Similarly, goods which feature in the tourist trade like cameras, tape recorders, fountain pens and watches will remain duty free. For those which are dutiable we have set up an area to cater for the needs of our entrepot trade. An expert from the United Nations is studying ways and means of improving our free port facilities so that our policy of industrialisation will not, in any way, hinder the efficient handling of our entrepot trade.

## Neutral Stand

Neutral Stand

Our policy of being friendly to anyone who wants to trade with us has begun to pay dividends. The goodwill mission led by the Deputy Prime Minister has met with favourable response from all the countries visited and has returned with reports of the desire of countries wanting to increase trade with us. Yugoslavia and the U.S.S.R. are sending trade missions and have invited us in return. This policy of friendliness to all nations is beginning to show results, for the People's Republic of China has already purchased rubber from us after a long lapse of time. Therefore, we can look forward to an increase in our trading activities.

## Indonesian Trade

Indonesian Trade

Mr Speaker, Sir, naturally, since Singapore's independence and the events in Indonesia following 30th September, resumption of trade with

Indonesia looms large in the minds of many.

I would like to repeat again that our position as a trading centre in South-East Asia is open to everyone, including Indonesia, so long as our security and that of our immediate neighbour, Malaysia, is not jeopardized.

The whole machinery of Government is geared to give the maximum incentives to existing and new industries but it now has to help find markets for them too. We must make every effort to increase the rate of expansion to provide sufficient primary jobs in industry to absorb the growing army of unemployed.

## Prospective Markets

Prospective Markets

I should like, Mr Speaker, to go into some detail on the question of prospective markets for our manufactured goods. These fall roughly into four categories:-

(a) Markets in the developed, highly industrialised countries of the world;

(b) New markets in Africa and Eastern Europe;

(c) Markets to be provided by those countries which have been consistently running favourable balances of trade with us; and

(d) Markets in those countries which have a vested interest in ensuring that Singapore remains viable and stable so that, in turn, their own security interests are not jeopardized.

In recent years increasing attention has been focussed on the need for highly industrialised countries to provide outlets for the simpler manufactures of developing countries, if for no other reason than to assist the latter in financing imports of machines and other capital equipment needed for development. Various international conferences have been held and there appears to be increasing realisation that enlightened self-interest among the highly developed economies would lead to enhanced

market opportunities for the developing countries. But this can only come about slowly.

With regard to developing new markets, this can and should be done. Our policy of neutrality, non-alignment between the big power blocs, together with our active identification with the Afro-Asian world gives us a good start with a growing consumer world in Afro-Asia. Trade missions will soon be sent to these countries to explore and develop these markets.

Mr Speaker, a cursory look at our trade statistics will reveal that there are several countries which enjoy a favourable position in their trade with us. We propose to persuade them to buy more of our products, especially our manufactured goods, and thereby redress the imbalance. We will shortly take the initiative to enter into trade agreements with them.

It will be observed, Mr Speaker, in the three categories of prospective markets that I have mentioned, even with the necessary effort, results will be slow in coming, nor are they likely to have an immediate impact on our growing unemployment problem.

I now turn to the fourth category of markets - markets in those countries which have more than a passing interest in our survival. My predecessor and colleague, the Minister of Defence, has already referred in passing to this subject a few weeks ago. Our asset in this respect is that we occupy a position of some importance in the strategic defence chain of South-East Asia. Countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand, amongst others, are therefore not uninterested that the link through Singapore should remain intact. These countries have an interest that we survive and to this end to give us export opportunities. It would be unrealistic and futile to demand unlimited and unrestricted access to these markets, for no nation can countenance imports of such volume that would imperil their domestic industries. We have estimated that it will be necessary to find about 8,000 to 10,000 new jobs in industries

each year for the next five to seven years. In value terms this only means an additional export of M$120 million each year on a cumulative basis. This is well within the capacity of the highly developed countries to share and absorb. Care and restraint will be exercised in selecting products which will not disrupt their domestic industries. They range from cutlery and ceramics to electrical and automobile component parts, optical equipment and so on. In all, Mr Speaker, about 200 to 300 products. Essentially, emphasis will be on those products which we can make efficiently and competitively.

Gradually, over a period of time, Singapore should be able to acquire the necessary efficiency to compete in world markets on her own strength. When we have reached that stage, we in turn will be prepared to extend to others the kind of assistance which we are now seeking. Our proposals are, therefore, a logical step in the overall industrial development pattern of the undeveloped sectors of Asia.

We will be making formal approaches to these countries. In the event that no satisfactory solutions are reached, then our whole political future will have to be re-assessed and a re-alignment is inescapable.

But, Mr Speaker, Sir, to attain our objective in transforming Singapore into a modern industrial nation, Government action alone is not sufficient. There must be a concerted effort by Government, entrepreneurs and workers alike - the whole nation must work as one. We have laid the infrastructure, we have provided the incentives and we have shown the way ahead to more rapid industrialisation. It is now up to the people of Singapore to respond to the call. The entrepreneurs must ensure by a proper choice of industries and industrial associates that the products manufactured are of a quality and price competitive with foreign products. Our workers must also be prepared for factory discipline and hard work to make costs competitive in the international market. There must be restraint and discipline on both entrepreneurs and workers if we are to emulate the

efforts which brought about the great economic recoveries after the world war in Germany and Japan. Let our industrialisation be established first on a firm basis before we think of sharing the gains. Anti-nationalist elements even now are trying their best to foil us in our attempts to bring about a more just and stable society. They will try to dupe the rank and file of our workers into prematurely demanding immediate short-term benefits which will kill the goose even before the golden eggs are laid. This is where progressive entrepreneurs and responsible trade unionists need to exercise restraint, patience and above all discipline and judgment.

There are some of our entrepreneurs who are pursuing labour policies more suited for a bygone age. They simply do not recognise that trade unions exist, even responsible ones. Unless they sit up and take notice that we are living in a modern world where responsible unions have come to stay, they will be letting themselves in for a lot of inconvenience and trouble. On the other hand, trade union leaders must dissuade their members from following the suicidal lines of action advocated by the anti-nationalists. It pays these anti-nationalists to create unemployment, chaos and disorder, for these are the conditions under which they thrive. It is the duty of every one of us to see that they do not succeed in their evil intentions.

## Relationship with Malaysia

Relationship with Malaysia

Mr Speaker, Sir, I think it will be fitting, at this stage, for me to dwell briefly on our economic relations with Malaysia since Singapore Day. The immediate effect of separation was the loss of the expectation of a Common Market and the retention by Singapore of all its revenues. The quota restrictions which were in force on the recommendations of the Tariff Advisory Board, prior to Singapore Day, were also made applicable to goods from Malaysia after that day. Honourable Members will be aware of the arguments and counterarguments that were put forth on both sides of the Causeway for removal of restrictions and freeing of the trade. On

our part, we suggested that there should be broad agreement on principles relating to closer economic co-operation and that following this trade restrictions must be simultaneously lifted. They maintained that restrictions should be first removed before talks on economic co-operation could begin. Finally, we agreed on 9th October to mutual removal of restrictions. Events since then have shown that negotiations will take some time in producing any result.

Our manufacturers entering Malaysia are treated as those of a third country, as indeed they have been all these years. There has been no change. On the other hand, our manufacturers now have a protected Singapore market where there was none before. But Singapore's separation and the fact that there is no common market with Malaysia does not mean that all economic, cultural and other ties between the two countries should also be severed. One-third of their trade is with us and about a quarter of our trade is with them. These ties have been built up over the last 140 years. No one can deny that continuation of these links is of mutual advantage. Furthermore, in terms of history, the two territories are really inseparable. And it must not be forgotten that the destruction of one means destruction of the other. For this reason, we will never initiate any policy which will have the effect of further severing the two countries. We have made many proposals, Mr Speaker, Sir, without receiving any positive rejoinder. Perhaps we may be going too fast for Kuala Lumpur in putting up these proposals so soon after separation. But we are always ready to adapt ourselves to their tempo of working, provided they are willing to meet us half-way. If they are sincere in working towards closer economic co-operation, let us in turn hear from them what their proposals are. Let us start the New Year right. Let us sit round the table, Ministers and officials, instead of each country being forced to work out how each can do without the other. I am willing, Mr Speaker, Sir, to meet the Malaysian

Ministers and their officials at any time and at any place of their own choice early in January to work out measures for co-operation in the field of trade and industry. We will continue to reason, to discuss and argue that economic co-operation holds no dangers to either. But in the meanwhile, we will launch forth into new markets and redouble our efforts to increase our trade with all countries of the West and of the East and of Afro-Asia.

## Currency

Currency

Whilst on relations with Malaysia, Mr Speaker, I should like to refer to the traditional common currency which we have had all these years. Honourable Members may recall that the Malaysian Government in December 1964, while Singapore was still a State of Malaysia, gave notice of its intention to Brunei to wind up the Currency Board. Under this system our currency is backed to the extent of 110 per cent or more by external assets and is one of the main pillars on which financial stability has rested in the past. We have now been informed that the notice referred to earlier still stands and discussions are now in progress with the Malaysian Government as to the currency arrangements which should be entered into on expiry of the notice in June next year. I am not in a position to divulge details of the discussions. The Government recognises that soundness of the currency is a prerequisite for financial stability and public confidence. For this reason, so far as Singapore is concerned, we will ensure that whatever the arrangements which may be arrived at, our currency will continue to be backed by 100 per cent or more in external assets.

## External Resources

External Resources

At the start of a period of momentous change in our history, it will be well to take stock of our present financial position.

Thanks to prudent budgetting and careful allocation of resources by the Government during the past six years, our external debt stands at only M$59

million, whereas our official foreign reserves by September this year, stands at M$914.7 million, made up as follows: Million Singapore's share of Currency Board Reserves (estimated) ... M$276.4 Government Reserves ... M$484.7 Reserve of Government Agencies such as Post Office Savings, C.P.F., E.D.B. ... M$53.7 Reserves of Public Authorities such as Public Utilities Board and Port of Singapore Authority ... M$99.9

This sum of M$914.7 million is adequate to finance retained imports for more than a year - a position which is strong by any international standard - and it is our intention to maintain this position of strength. We will explore and take advantage of all opportunities for loans from international bodies such as the World Bank and will seek other avenues of external loans to finance our development projects. But it would be unwise to rely too much on them. Our aim, Sir, is for more trade, not more aid, for by this we retain our freedom of action and self-respect.

## Review of Economy

Review of Economy

Mr Speaker, Sir, the economy continues to be robust. There was steady growth during the last few years, Indonesian confrontation notwithstanding. The economic performance of a country from year to year is best judged by the rate of growth of its national income. The House will recall that when assessing the economic effects of confrontation, it was estimated that if the Indonesian embargo on trade with us was completely successful, it would lead to a direct decline of about 8.7 per cent in our national income. It gives me great pleasure to report that in 1964, Singapore's national income stood at M$2,811 million, which reflected a rate of growth of some two per cent over 1963. This meant that the growth in the other sectors not only completely offset the

loss in national income as a result of Indonesian confrontation but, indeed, went on to achieve a net increase. This clearly shows the resilience of Singapore to absorb and overcome sudden and drastic declines in earnings.

Singapore's capacity to overcome such national occupational hazards is rein forced by our performance in external trade in the current year. The value of external trade during the first nine months of the year totalled M$5,041.0 million, showing a 8.6 per cent increase over the corresponding period of the previous year. This is a creditable performance considering the fact that trade in 1964 declined by about 19 per cent compared with 1963, as a result of Indonesian confrontation. Exports for the year were also up by 7.9 per cent while imports rose by 9.3 per cent.

Mr Speaker, a third good economic indicator is the volume of business transacted by banks. For the first nine months of 1965 deposits as well as loans and advances of banks have shown increases. Commercial bank deposits at the end of September 1965 stood at M$1,164.3 million compared with M$1,137.2 million at the end of December last year. This is an increase of 2.4 per cent in nine months. The most significant increase occurred in fixed deposits which showed a rise of 12.4 per cent.

The average monthly level of loans and advances to customers in 1965 stands at M$937.4 million which is an increase of 11.2 per cent over the average monthly level in 1964 which stood at $842.9 million. Despite Indonesian confrontation and the sudden shock of separation, banks have maintained confidence in Singapore's economy by increasing credit necessary for the transaction of business.

Earlier on, we have seen that Singapore's national income in 1964 showed a net increase of 2 per cent. One of the underlying factors which kept economic activity at this level in 1964 was the substantial growth of gross capital formation which rose from $323 million in 1963 to $415 million in 1964, an increase of $92 million or 28 per cent compared with an average rate of 22 per cent during the years 1959 to 1963.

An increased rate of investment was undertaken by both the public and the private sector. Public sector capital formation consists of public works such as construction of new ring roads, low-cost housing, expansion of utility services, e.g. power and water, and industrial infrastructure development, e.g. the Jurong Industrial Estate. Details on the rate of development will be given later on in my address when I review development expenditure in the past year.

Private sector capital formation consists mainly of two components, namely, building construction and investment in new manufacturing industries.

The monthly average area of building commenced in the first eight months of 1965 is 1,564,000 square feet, which is an increase of 28.9 per cent over the average monthly building activities commenced in 1964. In value terms, the corresponding increase in building commenced is $1,482,000 or 17 per cent above the average monthly level of $1,265,000 in 1964. Area of buildings under construction as at end of August 1965 stands at 29.2 million square feet or 34.4 per cent above the area under construction at the end of August last year.

The second component of private sector capital formation takes the form of fixed capital investment in new manufacturing industries. Capital investment on fixed assets by manufacturing companies awarded pioneer certificates at the end of October 1965 totals M$223.5 million compared with $170.4 million at the end of the corresponding month last year. This is an increase of 31 per cent.

Growth of Singapore's economy in the past year can also be seen in increased production of manufacturing industries. In terms of industrial output, provisional data derived from the 1964 Census of Industrial Production indicate that even with the fall in rubber processing activity, there was an estimated growth of 16 per cent in 1964 over 1963. Industrial output in 1964 was estimated at $1,052 million compared with $909 million in 1963.

In 1965, 35 new pioneer manufacturing companies commenced production, bringing the total number of pioneer firms in production up to 82. In addition, another 63 pioneer factories are under construction or being established. The 82 pioneer firms already in production are presently giving employment to 9,000 workers compared with 4,200 workers employed in 1964. The level of employment will rise to 14,300 workers when these firms achieve full production.

Singapore's gratifying rate of economic performance in the year under review has enabled our people to buy more of the good things of life. The number of new motor-cars registered during the first ten months of 1965 showed an in, crease of 7,528 or 7.6 per cent over December 1964. We have reached the stage today where there is one car for every 18 Singaporeans. Motor-cycles and scooters registered have also gone up by 5,263 units or 10 per cent above December 1964. By the end of the year the overall rate of increase in new vehicles registered may well be 10 per cent over 1964. Similarly, television sets imported during the first nine months of the year were valued at $7.6 million compared with imports of $5.9 million for the corresponding period of 1964, an increase of 28 per cent.

## General Review of Revenue and Expenditure in 1965

General Review of Revenue and Expenditure in 1965

Mr Speaker, Sir, I will now come to the general review of revenue and expenditure for this year. In the original Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for 1965, when Singapore was still in Malaysia, revenue accruing to the State was estimated at $339.6 million and State expenditure (including a transfer of $20 million to the Development Fund) at $359.8 million. With separation both revenue and expenditure in 1965 will he substantially increased.

Details of additional revenue reverting wholly to the Singapore Government are shown in a paper being presented as Supplementary Estimates of Revenue, 1965. The increase in revenue amounts to $43.2 million, representing the 40 per

cent that would have been payable to the Central Government under Malaysia. Total estimates of revenue for the year will therefore be increased to $382.8 million.

By October $310.3 million of the total estimated revenue was collected. Another $72 million should be collected in the last two months of this year, bringing total revenue to $382.3 million, or $0.5 million short of the estimate.

On the expenditure side Singapore will now have to bear the expenditure of those departments in Singapore which were formerly Federal departments, e.g. Police, Posts and Telecoms, Civil Aviation and so on, as well as two new Ministries - Defence and Foreign Affairs. For this purpose provision of $39.3 million is being sought as Supplementary Estimates.

In the Supplementary Estimates a sum of $6.7 million is also being sought for five heads of expenditure whose 1965 provision is insufficient. The total of $46 million being sought will bring total estimates of expenditure for the year to $405.8 million.

Actual outlay up to 31st October, 1965, amounted to $286.4 million. Expenditure for the last two months of the year, including a $20 million transfer to the Development Fund, is estimated to be approximately $103.4 million. Total expenditure for the year will, therefore, be around $389.8 million.

With total expenditure for the year amounting to $389.8 million arid total receipts of $382.3 million only, a deficit of $7.5 million is expected. Since the expenditure figure of $389.8 million includes a capital transfer of $20 million there is, in fact, a surplus of $12.5 million from our current account. The surplus in 1964 was only $3.1 million. Considering the problems we had to face on account of confrontation and the large sums that we had to contribute to the Malaysian Government towards defence and internal security, things have turned out far better than we had dared to hope.

## Revenue, 1965

Revenue, 1965

With the exception of tobacco duty and stamp duty, revenue from the other taxes has come up to expectations. Income Tax is expected to yield $99.3 million -- which is nearly $5 million more than the sum collected in 1964. Although the increase could be attributed partly to the changes in the rates and basis of assessment introduced by the Malaysian Government, whereby tax-payers at the base had to pay more and the withdrawal of the concession to working wives of separate assessment for earned income, the yield from Income Tax clearly indicates that the effect of confrontation on taxable earnings in 1964 has been insignificant, if at all.

Indications are that duty from petroleum will reach $51.8 million this year. This exceeds the sum estimated for the year by $7.8 million and is $11.3 million more than the amount collected in 1964. Registration fees for vehicles are likely to show an increase from $5.9 million in 1964 to approximately $6.4 million this year - a rise of slightly more than half a million dollars.

Customs duty and excise duty on liquor are expected to amount to $19.5 million and $14.8 million respectively. The sum of $19.5 million from Customs duty is about the same as for 1964. Excise duty has, however, risen by about half a million dollars. Entertainment duty, though expected to be about $0.2 million below the estimate of $7.5 million, is in fact $1.4 million more than in 1964. These increases, though small, are all significant.

Receipts from stamp duty are anticipated to yield only $5.7 million this year - a drop of $1.3 million below the amount collected in 1964. Property tax, however, is not affected and the estimated sum of $58.1 million is expected to be realised.

Tobacco duty is likely to suffer a fall from $43.6 million in 1964 to about $42 million in 1965. The fall is due to a decrease in the consumption of imported cigarettes and the trend to switch from the use of leaf-tobacco bearing full rates of duty to leaf-tobacco attracting preferential rates.

## Expenditure, 1965

Expenditure, 1965

The main increases in expenditure are as usual in respect of expenditure on social services; especially expenditure on Education and Hospital services. The Ministry of Education is seeking a supplementary provision of $5.4 million. This will raise expenditure on Education to $113.3 million. This is about $10 million above that of 1964; an increase of approximately 10 per cent. The Hospitals Division requires an additional sum of $780,000 making a total of $38.7 million for the year; which is also about 10 per cent higher than the previous year. The Ministry of Health is the second largest head of expenditure and like the Ministry of Education has also been showing a rather steep rise in expenditure during the past few years. The supplementary provisions being sought by the remaining three heads of expenditure are minor ones. A sum of $300,000 is being sought by the Public Works Department for street lighting. This is on account of the accelerated pace with which streets are being lighted up. The Accountant-General is seeking an additional $76,000 and Inland Revenue $96,000.

With the exception of the five heads of expenditure just mentioned, the other heads of expenditure are expected to manage within their provisions. However, as the Estimates of Expenditure were based on an assessment of actual requirements, no substantial savings are expected from any head of expenditure.

## Financial Arrangements Under Malaysia

Financial Arrangements Under Malaysia

Mr Speaker, Sir, it would not be out of place for me to mention here the various implications of the financial arrangements which existed under Malaysia.

Under Annex J, 40 per cent of taxes which were of a Federal nature and collected in Singapore were to be paid to the Central Government to cover Singapore's share of Central Government expenditure covering:

(i) the expenditure of Federal Departments in Singapore;

(ii) a share of expenditure for defence and internal security;

(iii) a share of expenditure for external affairs, Parliament and other common Central Government services.

For 1964, Singapore's share of expenditure for defence was assessed at $75 million out of an estimated total expenditure of $441.5 million - that is roughly 17 per cent of total Malaysian expenditure; and its share of expenditure for external affairs and common Central Government services estimated at $7.5 million out of an estimated total expenditure of $43.19 million - again also about 17 per cent of total expenditure.

According to available figures, the actual expenditure for 1964 of these items amounted to $97.5 million while the 40 per cent share of revenue derived by the Malaysian Government amounted to $119.9 million. The Malaysian Government, thus, gained a gross surplus of $22.4 million in 1964.

Computed on the same basis, the Malaysian Government suffered a small loss of $5.13 million from Malaysia Day (that is 16th September, 1963) to the end of 1963, but gained a surplus of $31.64 million for the period from 1st January this year up to Singapore Day. For the whole duration of Singapore's inclusion in Malaysia, the Central Government gained a gross surplus of $48.91 million. This total does not take into account some ten odd million dollars per annum since Malaysia Day representing our share of currency profits.

On the other hand, the State Government rendered certain services on behalf of the Central Government during Malaysia and these claims, a substantial part of which were agreed in principle during Malaysia, are expected to be settled next year. These do not include old claims such as Malaysia's share of contributions to the University of Singapore which are yet to be settled.

## Estimates 1966

Estimates 1966

The increased responsibilities, which Singapore has to bear on account of its new status as an independent nation,

are clearly reflected in the 1966 Estimates. Estimated expenditure is $506.56 million. Revenue has also correspondingly increased, mainly because Singapore no longer has to share the proceeds of its taxes with any other Government. Total revenue for the year is estimated at $537 million. The estimated surplus, before transfer to the Development Fund, is thus $30.44 million. It is proposed to transfer $30 million next year. This will leave a small balance of approximately half a million dollars. Mr Speaker, Sir, the most gratifying feature of the Budget for next year is that it is being balanced without having to run down our reserves and on top of it we hope to show a small surplus as well.

## Expenditure 1966

Expenditure 1966

Expenditure of the Ministry of Education for next year remains the highest. The estimate for 1966 is $129.2 million, which is nearly $16.3 million above the sum expected to be spent this year. The increase is on account of the increasing number of children moving up from Primary to Secondary Schools.

Because of the expansion in hospital services, a sum of $43.6 million is estimated to be required for the Hospitals Division of the Ministry of Health, a rise of $4.9 million over expenditure this year. The rate of increase is thus almost as high as that of expenditure on Education.

A substantial increase of about $5 million, bringing the provision up to $28.8 million is being provided for the Public Health Division, The major part of the increase is for the acquisition of more staff and equipment to improve the standard of cleanliness of the growing city.

The new major burdens which Singapore now has to bear are in respect of internal security defence. Expenditure for the Police is estimated at $40.3 million. Details of expenditure for defence have yet to be finalised. Very roughly, a sum of approximately $30 million will be required, and a block vote of this sum has been entered under the Ministry of the Interior and Defence head of expenditure.

A sum of $4.2 million has been provided for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main cost of this Ministry is in the expenditure of our missions abroad. The amount required will depend on the number of missions we are able to set up next year. It is, therefore, difficult to estimate with any precision at this stage, and supplementary provision may he required in the course of the year if more missions are established.

## Revenue, 1966

Revenue, 1966

Most of the major taxes are expected to show increases next year. Customs and Excise duties on petroleum products, together with the new protective tariffs introduced in October this year, are estimated to yield $47.8 million, an increase of $3.8 million over 1965 Estimates. The estimated revenue of $20.1 million from Customs duties on liquor is $1.6 million higher than the estimate for this year. Property Tax is estimated to increase from $58.1 million estimated for 1965 to $65 million.

There has been a steady decline in the revenue from tobacco tax. Based on present trend, the revenue for 1966 is estimated at $42.5 million against the 1965 estimate of $48 million. The reasons have been dealt with in the review of the current year's revenue.

The imposition of a tax on fuel oil by the Malaysian Government created considerable problems in certain manufacturing industries as the cost of production was increased. Within powers available under the Customs Ordinance, all bona fide manufacturers utilising fuel oil have been exempted from the fuel oil tax as from 19th November this year. The Public Utilities Board, also a major consumer of fuel oil, has not been exempted from the fuel oil tax as such. Measures are examined to ascertain whether it is possible for the Public Utilities Board not to pass on to manufacturers the tax element on fuel oil used in generating electricity.

The protective duties introduced on 11th October this year in the wake of duties imposed by Malaysia also have a revenue effect. Revenue

from these new 154 protective duties are expected to yield $14.6 million next year.

No new Customs duties are expected to he introduced for revenue purposes next year. Such Customs duties as will he introduced will be for protective reasons and are not expected to yield any significant revenue.

A review must now be made of other taxes. On the day of Singapore's separation from Malaysia, the repeal of the Turnover Tax was announced. Nineteen days later, the Capital Gains Tax was rescinded. No revenue was derived from these taxes. As three-quarters of the fiscal year had expired by Singapore Day, it was not possible to change or rescind all the unsatisfactory fiscal measures introduced by the Central Government during this year.

A new Income Tax Bill has been introduced at this meeting of Parliament to make such amendments to the income Tax law as are necessary to accord with the sovereign and independent status of Singapore. Mr Speaker, Sir, I will now point out the main features of the Bill.

(a) With effect from 1st January, 1966, exemptions from tax in respect of owner-occupied houses will he limited to a maximum net annual value of $3,000 and restricted to a single property as it was in Singapore before Malaysia, thus rescinding the Central Government's unrestricted exemption of owner-occupied houses without limit as to value or number since 1st January, 1965. Indiscriminate exemption wil1 favour wealthy property owners unduly, and such a policy is not in accordance with the objective of a more just and equal society.

(b) For the year of assessment 1966, working wives in Singapore will again be allowed to choose to be assessed separately from their husbands

in respect of their earned income. During Malaysia the combined incomes of working husbands and wives were aggregated for the purpose of income tax, and only a small relief was allowed for the wives' earnings. To encourage half our population to engage in productive work and increase the national income, wives will be assessed separately next year.

(c) The opportunity will also be taken to restore the rates of certain personal reliefs for individual taxpayers and bodies of persons to the pre-Malaysian levels, with the exception that child allowances will apply to a maximum of five children.

(d) The rates of tax on the higher income group will be restored to pre-Malaysian levels as the rates imposed during Malaysia are considered incompatible with the principle of imposing the heavier burden of taxation on those best able to bear it. For example, the Singapore upper rate of tax of 55 per cent on personal incomes of $100,000 or more per year was reduced by the Central Government to 50 per cent during Malaysia with effect from 1st January, 1965. There will be provision in the Bill to re-impose upper tax of 55 per cent with effect from 1st January, 1966.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I have already announced on I9th November proposals to give added incentives to industry. Double deduction for tax purposes for market development overseas and for increased local advertisement expenditure for our manufacturers will be provided in the Bill. There will also be flexible powers to accord key industry, particularly expert-orientated industry, increased rates of depreciation so that plant and equipment could be written

off for tax purposes within three years, if necessary.

As a result of these remedial measures, income tax collections in 1966 are expected to fall as compared with this year. A sum of $95.5 million is estimated for 1966, or a fall of $3.8 million below the estimated collections this year. Under the rate to be reintroduced, separate assessment for earned income of working wives, which is to be restored, will also reduce the tax payable on their incomes. We are also reverting, Mr Speaker, Sir, to the pre-Malaysian rates with regard to estate duty.

I should mention here the intentions of the Government in regard to the tax position of persons who are resident either in Singapore or Malaysia but derive income from both territories. It is quite clear that in view of Singapore's independent status the existing "combined income" provisions in both the Singapore and Malayan Income Tax Laws will have to be reviewed. Discussions with the Malaysian Government are now in train with the objective of concluding a double taxation agreement at an early date so that the position of taxpayers in both territories can be put on a proper basis.

Whilst on the subject, Mr Speaker, Sir, I may also mention that the Government desires to enter into double taxation agreement with other countries, especially those whose residents are or will be investing in Singapore. These agreements will remove the inhibition to investment inherent in double taxation of profits.

## Second Five-Year Development Plan

Second Five-Year Development Plan

Mr Speaker, 1966 marks the first year of - the Second Development Plan of Singapore. It is opportune for us to assess what was achieved during the past five years.

In formulating the First Development Plan, major emphasis was laid on economic development to create conditions favourable for industrial growth through construction of infrastructure facilities

such as power, water, port, industrial estates, arterial roads and other ancillaries. The Government also provides more direct assistance to industries by establishing the Economic Development Board. The Board provides loan as well as equity capital for the establishment or expansion of industries. In the social sector, the aim was limited to providing a satisfactory level of social services, particularly housing, education and health amenities.

The original Plan drawn up for the period 1961-64 envisaged a total development expenditure of $871 million. However, at the end of 1964 it was decided to extend the First Plan for another year so that Singapore, as a State of Malaysia then, could follow the development planning period of Malaysia as a whole. Hence, final expenditure of the extended First Plan for 1961-65, instead of from 196l-64, is estimated to total $944 million. Plan allocation and final expenditure are likely to be as follows:- Plan Provision 1961-64 M$ % Economic Development 507.95 58.32 Social Development 349.88 40.17 Public Administration 13.19 1.51 ------ ----- 871.02 100 ------ ----- Final Expenditure 1961-65 M$ % Economic Development 587.98 62.3 Social Development 342.82 36.3 Public Administration 13.26 1.4 ------ ----- 944.06 100 ------ -----

The rate of expenditure on development in the public sector under the First Plan showed a substantial increase over the five-year period. Expenditure rose from $132.11 million in the first year of the Plan to around $242 million in 1965. This is an indication of increasing capacity of the public Sector during the Plan period to successfully mobilise resources and undertake developmental work.

In reviewing the results of the First Plan, it will be useful to assess the performance of the economy as a whole during this period, including private sector investment as well. National income has gone up from $2,030 million in 1960 to $2,811 million in 1964, showing an annual growth of 7 per cent. As population increase averaged only 3 per cent per annum, there has been an increase in the per capita income of the country. Gross capital formation has increased even more substantially. It has increased from $137.3 million in 1960 to over $414.7 million in 1964. This reflects the level of increase in investment in the country during this period and also clearly indicates that private sector investment has expanded up to expectations.

In particular, the performance of the manufacturing sector has been most encouraging. Total output of firms employing more than ten workers excluding rubber processing, increased from $465.6 million in 1960 to $843.7 million in 1963, while value added had increased from $142.1 million to $252.6 million. These aggregates furnish a measure of the substantial achievements of the manufacturing sector.

As Singapore is now independent, the formulation and implementation of the Second Plan must be within the new political framework. A more realistic approach is needed in planning for the future. The Second Plan fully reflects this new outlook.

The impact of the First Plan has also helped to change the strategy of planning for the future. Some of the problems, especially in the social sector, relating to primary education, general health services and housing, are now less pressing than they were in 1959. The birth rate has fallen from about 4.3 per cent to about 3.2 per cent and the rate of natural increase is now only 2.5 per cent as against 3.3 per cent in 1959. Though this is not likely to have any immediate effects in the Second Plan period, it does provide for a change in emphasis in the long run. The development of power

and port facilities has also been more than adequate and has been significantly ahead of requirements.

However, Mr Speaker, the provision of employment opportunities has become even more urgent. The number of persons likely to enter the labour market during the Second Plan period is much greater than in the previous period. It is estimated that about 95,000 persons will be entering the labour market in this period. In addition, the backlog of unemployed as at the end of 1965, is estimated to be around 55,000.

There is now a need for even more stringent evaluation of development projects. Basically, industries must become more competitive in world markets sooner than was necessary in the past. The emphasis in the Second Plan period will be on the building up of the industrial base largely with export markets in view.

The total Second Plan size is about $1,520 million. Economic development will account for about 64 per cent of the total Plan outlay. Social development projects will take up 32 per cent of the outlay and the balance of 4 per cent will be Public Administration.

Allocation of the Second Plan by type of expenditure is broadly as follows :- Million Economic development $975.9 64.2% of Total Plan Outlay Social development $484.1 31.8% of Total Plan Outlay Public Administration $ 61.1 4.0% of Total Plan Outlay

However, due to Singapore's new political status and the need to secure alternative export markets for our industries, the Economic Planning Unit has been directed to re-evaluate development proposals and basis of allocation of expenditure to take into account the changed circumstances. Subject to changes which may be necessary as a result of this re-evaluation, sectoral allocation is broadly as follows: Million Rural and Land Development $130.1 Public Utilities $316.1 Industry and Trade $342.8 Transport and Communications $186.7

All these will give the money to be spent on economic development 64.2 per cent share of the total outlay.

Social Development will account for $484 million or 31.8 per cent.

Public Administration $61.4 million or 4 per cent.

Mr Speaker, Sir, this is not the time for me to go into further detail on the Second Plan. The Second Plan, which will be given a more thorough re-evaluation in the light of changing circumstances, will be tabled in the new year.

## 1966 Development Estimates

1966 Development Estimates

I will now turn our attention to the 1966 Development Estimates which call for an expenditure of $275 million. Total public sector investment in 1966, including development by statutory bodies financed from their own funds will, however, be around $314 million. Allowing for a ten per cent shortfall in performance, actual Government development funds required may total only $250 million.

Provisions in the 1966 Development Estimates will be spent on projects to be undertaken by Government Departments, tentatively approved for inclusion in the Second Plan. There are also provisions for loans and grants to statutory bodies to assist them in carrying out their development programmes as envisaged in the Plan. As 1966 is the first year of the new Plan, most of the provisions are for new schemes whose total cost adds up to $242.4 million, or 88.9 per cent of the total provision for the 1966 Development Estimates. The balance of the Development Budget is made up by revotes for spillover schemes. In other words, these are schemes started in the First Plan but will be completed in 1966. The revotes amount to $33.2 million.

It may be noted that many projects, with provisions in the Estimates, will be subject to the sanction of the Economic Planning Unit. This is to enable further examination of the projects to determine the best means of implementing them.

The funds allocated to Ministries in the 1966 Estimates are as follows: - (In $ million) Deputy Prime Minister 6.95 Ministry of Interior and Defence 16.25 Ministry of Education 28.74 Ministry of Health 5.81 Ministry of Finance 82.93 Ministry of Culture and Social Affairs 4.83 Ministry of Law and National Development 130.14 ------------- Total 275.65 -------------

## Deputy Prime Minister's Ministry

Deputy Prime Minister's Ministry

The largest claim on $6.95 million expenditure provision for the Deputy Prime Minister's Ministry is Telecommunication development which accounts for $3.64 million. It includes the purchase of 13 new sets of subscriber teleprinter equipment in 1966 to meet the increasing demand for the service. The submarine cable project, namely, SEACOM, has reached an advanced stage of implementation. By the end of 1966 or early 1967, SEACOM would link Singapore with Britain, Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong with high grade radio circuit working on a 24-hour basis. Together with COMPAC and CONTAT, SEACOM will connect Singapore to America and Europe. To get the best advantage from this new circuit and the fact that Singapore has been selected by the International Communication Union as an International Telephone Switching Centre for South-East Asia, it is proposed to install an International Automatic Telephone Switching Unit which will cost $700,000. The amount voted for 1966 will be $600,000.

Expenditure for Civil Aviation is $2.75 million. The main proposal is to extend the Airport runway from the existing 9,000 to 10,000 feet. Other improvements envisaged for our International Airport at Paya Lebar will be to modernise the navigational aids to increase the operational safety of aircraft landing and taking off from Singapore.

Postal services will receive $411,000 to build two new post-offices and to

renovate the General Post Office at Fullerton Building.

## Ministry of Interior and Defence

Ministry of Interior and Defence

Economic and social development can only take place, Mr Speaker, Sir, within the framework of law and order. Now that Singapore is an independent nation, necessary provisions must, therefore, be made to strengthen and expand our Police and ancillary Forces. Hence, a sum of $16 million has been allocated to the Ministry of Interior and Defence next year to ensure the maintenance of lass and order within the country and also to withstand any threats from outside. The balance of the vote of $253,000 will be used for community development by the Ministry.

## Ministry of Education

Ministry of Education

Expenditure provision for Education in 1966 has increased to $28.74 million compared with $24.8 million provided in 1965. The funds will be used to construct and complete four primary schools and 19 secondary schools. In the programme of bringing existing schools up to standard size requirements, provisions are made for major extensions to five existing schools and the reconstruction of four rural primary and island schools into standard size schools.

## Ministry of Health

Ministry of Health

Under the Ministry of Health, a scheme worth mentioning is the development of a Radioisotope Therapy Centre within the Institute of Medical Specialities which the Government is setting up jointly with the University of Singapore. These will he housed in a nine-storey building in the grounds of the General Hospital. The Government will contribute up to $2.375 million. The Medical Progress Fund has up-to-date mobilised donations of over $3.0 million from the public.

In view of the shortage of land and the rapid pace of development in Singapore, areas suitable for dumping rubbish and garbage waste are becoming scarce. A careful study of the problem

led to the conclusion that Singapore should resort to mechanical techniques of disposing garbage waste by using a Garbage Disposal Plant as adopted by modern cities of other countries. In 1966 the first Plant of 100-ton capacity will be erected at Redhill Industrial Estate at an estimated cost of $2.5 million. It will take oven a year to complete the scheme for which $1.68 million will be spent in 1966. Two more such Garbage Disposal Plants will he built during the next five years. Other schemes under Health will improve and extend the health services which have already achieved a high standard comparable with other developing countries in the region.

## Ministry of Finance

Ministry of Finance

The proposed expenditure for the Ministry of Finance is $82.93 million. The main provision is for the Jurong Industrial Estate which the Economic Development Board will continue to develop. Phase I of the scheme is almost completed and the provision of $36.0 million for 1966 would substantially he for the development of the Second Phase of the scheme. Another 55.0 million has been provided for the development of light industrial estates at Kallang Park and Kallang Basin, as well as the construction of a seven-storeyed flatted factory at Redhill Industrial Site. Government has also provided a $10 million loan to the Board for industrial financing.

Another $30 million provision has been made under the Ministry of Finance to serve as a loan which the Public Utilities Board may require in 1966 to finance their expansion schemes.

## Ministry of Culture and Social Affairs

Ministry of Culture and Social Affairs

Under the Ministry of Culture and Social Affairs, ten more children playgrounds will be built next year. A new fire station is proposed for Toa Payoh which is being rapidly developed into a satellite town. It will be larger than Queenstown and will hold a population of 250,000 people when it is completed as compared to 150,000 in Queenstown. The Mount Emily Girls' Home will

receive $100,000 to extend its capacity to house 40 more girls, bringing the total to 85 girls.

The Government Printer will acquire a Rotary Press costing $300,000 to cope with the increasing amount of work. The new year will witness the completion of the permanent T.V. Studio at Caldecott Hill which would cost the Government $11.4 million. $1.9 million is required to complete it in 1966.

## Ministry of Law and National Development

Ministry of Law and National Development

The Ministry of Law and National Development has the largest share of the 1966 Development Estimates. More than $130 million or some 50 per cent of the total capital Budget has been allocated to this Ministry. The Housing Board alone will spend $45 million to build about 12,000 units of low-cost housing in 1966 as part of its Second Five-Year Housing programme. The Urban Re-development Scheme will continue next year. So far $8.14 million has been spent and $15 million has been provided for 1966. Singapore is the first developing country to undertake an Urban Renewal programme of such size. The programme can only succeed with the support and participation by private enterprise. As an incentive the Government has decided to give a substantial reduction in property tax on new buildings completed with the approval of the Urban Renewal authorities. In other words, Mr Speaker, Sir, private developers participating in Urban Renewal would obtain a quicker and higher return from their investments.

The East Coast Reclamation and Kallang Reclamation Schemes will also he carried out by the Housing and Development Board on behalf of the Government. The two schemes will reclaim 300 and 100 acres of land respectively next year. When completed in two years' time 2,000 acres of new und would be added to Singapore's territorial domain. A total of $20.4 million has been allocated for land reclamation work in 1966.

The multi-storey car park at Market Street has proved successful. It is more than 75 per cent occupied and will soon

fall short of demand for more car park bays. In view of this, a second multi-storey car park, although on a smaller scale compared with the existing one, will be built at Phillip Street. This project will cost $1.5 million of which $300,000 will be provided in 1966 for piling work only.

The Ministry of Law and National Development in a joint venture with the Housing and Development Board will build a 22-storey building at Erskine Hill to house all the departments of the Ministry and the Board. The cost of the scheme is $14.0 million and Government's share will be $7.0 million. In 1966 $1.0 million has been entered in the Development Estimates for this scheme.

The main project of the Primary Production Department of the Ministry of Law and National Development is the Central Abattoir and Quarantine Station which is being built in Jurong. Such an abattoir is necessary to provide adequate slaughtering facilities to recognised international standards in order to gain acceptance of Singapore's canned meat exports in world markets. The scheme will cost $5.4 million of which $4.5 million has been voted for 1966. Other projects of the Department include construction of more extension centres, the expansion of the farm school at Sembawang Agricultural Station and the provision of improved facilities for extension services to farmers and the rural population.

The P.W.D. has a development expenditure Budget of $28.31 million for 1966 as compared with $23.40 million last year. For roads and bridges a sum of $12.38 million will be spent; for drainage and flood alleviation, $2.52 million, and sewerage works, $11.65 million. Construction of new roads and bridges, extensions and improvement of existing bridges have become a matter of great urgency because of the rapid increase in the number of motor vehicles. Amongst the interesting projects authorised for next year are the widening of Merdeka Bridge and an elevated highway over Mountbatten Road beginning from Guillemard Circus to Fort

Road. In regard to drainage and flood alleviation schemes, 1966 will see the completion of the Geylang River Scheme. The First Phase of the flood alleviation for Bukit Timah would begin next year. This scheme has become urgent because of the rapid housing and other developments along Bukit Timah Road and these rapidly built-up areas have aggravated the flooding there.

In the development programme of the State, Government does not intend to lag behind in the field of modern sanitation which is an essential requisite of a clean and healthy city. Sewerage schemes will be developed to keep pace with the progress in the development of industrial and residential estates and in the Urban Renewal programme. A start will be made in 1966 to bring water-borne sewerage facilities to such areas as the Jurong Industrial Estate, Kallang Basin, Pasir Panjang, Toa Payoh and the two Urban Renewal precincts Sewerage schemes to be undertaken in 1966 will cost $11.65 million. This brings me to the end of the review of next year's Ordinary Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue as well as the Development Estimates.

Finally, Mr Speaker, with wider areas of authority and greater freedom of action after independence, never has there been such an opportunity as we now have to plan for the prosperity and well-being of our people. What is now needed is a return to the pioneering spirit of our forefathers who by their dynamism, hard work, and self-sacrifice turned what was an inhospitable swamp into the largest port in South-East Asia. Singapore has never before failed to seize any opportunity for its advancement and I am sure, given the right direction, they will not let slip this golden opportunity to build themselves into a great and prosperous nation, a spur for like-minded neighbours to achieve for themselves.

Sir, I beg to move.

4.19 p.m.

Mr A. P. Rajah (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That the Assembly approves the financial

policy of the Government for the year 1966." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 82, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed, what day, Mr Minister?

Mr Lim Kim San

**Mr Lim Kim San:**

Mr Lim Kim San: 23rd December.
