# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1982-03-05
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam (Minister for Trade and Industry); Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker);

---

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

3.52 p.m.

Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam (Minister for Trade and Industry)

**The Minister for Trade and Industry (Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam):**

The Minister for Trade and Industry (Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

"That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1982 to 31st March, 1983."

Sir, I have been delegated the authority by the Minister for Finance to prepare and deliver the Budget Statement under Articles 144 and 145 of the Constitution of Singapore.

Following established practice I shall present the Statement in three parts. The first will review the progress of the economy in 1981 and our economic policy. The second will elaborate on the FY 1982 Main and Development Estimates, and the third on the Revenue Estimates and tax changes to finance the estimated expenditure incurred in achieving our social and economic objectives. In preparing this year's Budget Statement, I have had the

benefit of the views of representatives from various business groups, NTUC, CASE and the University. I have taken these views into consideration where appropriate.

## Singapore's Economy in 1981

Singapore's Economy in 1981

The detailed review of the performance of our economy in 1981 may be found in the Economic Survey of Singapore, 1981 (Cols. 567 - 828), copies of which have been given to hon. Members of the House earlier. Today I shall highlight our performance briefly.

As expected, 1981 was a very difficult year for the world economy. Very low or negative growth rates were recorded in the United States, France, West Germany and Great Britain. The number of people without work in Europe and the United States rose to post-war record levels. In the United Kingdom, 3.0 million people, a number greater than the population of Singapore, were without jobs. In the United States, those jobless numbered 9.5 million. Because of the grim economic conditions in these countries, world trade did not grow at all.

In comparison with the depressing economic conditions in the West, the performance of the Singapore economy in 1981 was an enviable one. Our economy grew at just under 10%, only marginally less than in 1980. We are fortunate that the Asia-Pacific region, with its abundant natural resources and political stability, is one of the growth areas in the world today. The North East Asian developing countries of Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea and our ASEAN neighbours, continued to register growth rates of 5-10%. Japan, Australia and New Zealand also did relatively better than other industrialized countries. We benefitted. We were also fortunate to have built up a diversified economic base in the Seventies so that the slack in one product market was made up by the strong growth of another.

Domestic factors played a greater role than in previous years in enabling us to achieve further growth in 1981. Undaunted by the adverse world economic condi-

tions,business firms took a long term view of the potential of our economic restructuring. They invested in more plant and equipment, buildings and machinery. They mechanized and automated and initiated new and better lines of activities. The public sector also played its part by shedding off some of its manpower to the private sector. Productivity thus advanced further by 5.4% accounting for more than half of the economic growth. A large part of this came from the efforts of individual Singaporeans in responding to economic restructuring. They worked harder and smarter than the year before and acquired new skills.

All major sectors of the economy grew, although at a slightly slower pace than in 1980. Manufacturing expanded by 10%, financial and business services 18%, and transport and communication 13%.

Although the trade sector slowed down, it still grew by 6%. External trade bore the brunt of the recession in the United States and Western Europe. In dollar terms, it expanded by 10% to $103 billion. In volume terms, the increase was 8%. Though much lower than the previous years, it was a commendable achievement in the face of stagnant world trade.

With investment in new factories, offices, hotels, shopping complexes 'and houses, the construction sector grew at a fast pace, 17%. Fortunately, there were fewer supply bottlenecks because of the increases in local production and imports of building materials. More foreign workers from non-traditional sources were also admitted, After a rapid rise in prices in the first half of 1981, we are now seeing a restoration of price stability in the industry.

The construction industry will continue to be a very important sector in our economy in the next ten years. I will come back to it later.

Our good economic performance had only one unsatisfactory aspect, i.e. a stubborn inflation rate. Mainly because of rising food prices, inflation in 1981 did not subside as much as we would like to see. Consumer prices rose by 8.2%, marginally less than in 1980. However, inflation in

Singapore was again lower than the inflation in the industrialized countries and that of our neighbouring countries.

Singaporeans did not suffer any cut in real income. As measured by GDP per capita, real income went up by 8.5%. With oil prices now more stable, the outlook for consumer prices in 1982 is healthier. World prices of essential commodities, such as rice and sugar, are expected to decline as a result of good harvests. Barring any unexpected turn of events, our inflation rate will subside further in 1982.

I shall now elaborate on specific areas of our economic policy.

## Industrial Development

Industrial Development

Industrial development is progressing well under our three-year wage correction policy. Investment commitments (excluding petrochemicals) amounted to $1.9 billion, a new record. The investments are concentrated on more capital-intensive and higher technology industries, such as metal and heavy engineering, computers, industrial electronics and electronic components, chemical products and petroleum refining. Specific new projects successfully promoted and under implementation include those for IC wafer-diffusion, computers and computer peripherals, pharmaceutical and oil field tools such as rockbits. These projects represent significant advancement for Singapore's technological base and generate challenging job opportunities for an increasingly better educated and better trained workforce. Existing firms also invested in new capital equipment and technology. As a result, for the new investments, fixed investment per worker was 128% higher, in real terms, than in 1980. Similarly, value-added per worker was 81% higher. We have also been more successful in attracting investment in specialized services. Thus commitments for engineering services and computer software services increased from $2 million in 1980 to $34 million in 1981.

Labour-intensive industrial sectors that employ unskilled workers in substantial numbers are also mechanizing and automating their production processes. One local company reduced its workforce to one-sixth by introducing industrial robots

and automated assembly lines. Although some progress has been made in automating our industries, the Government through the Economic Developmgnt Board (EDB) will intensify its effort to achieve the highest feasible level of mechanization in all industrial sectors.

An encouraging development last year was the record high investment of $610 million committed by local firms for the expansion and upgrading of plants in the printing, publishing and ship-repairing industries. It is an indication that local companies can be as dynamic as the multinationals. It reaffirms once again that an economic philosophy of free and open competition serves us best. To assist local industries to develop and upgrade further, the EDB increased its lending through the Small Industries Finance Scheme (SIFS). 221 loans totalling $66 million were extended on concessionary terms. Investment allowances were also given for automation and upgrading projects. Of the total $11 million awarded under the Interest Grant for Mechanization Scheme of the Skills Development Fund, 70% went to 91 local companies.

To be able to serve the international markets, our products and services must be of the highest standards. The conclusion of the Bilateral Airworthiness Agreement with the United States in August 1981 was further testimony that the quality of our products is gaining international recognition. Under this Agreement, aircraft parts and components manufactured in Singapore and certified by the Director of Civil Aviation in Singapore can now be exported to the United States without the need for further certification by the Federal Aviation Administration. This is ample recognition of the skills of our workers.

Industrial development this year will be more difficult than in previous years as the recessionary conditions in the world economy are expected to continue into 1982. Firms face the prospect of slack demand and excess capacity in the markets of the industrialized countries. The high rates of unemployment in our traditional markets will increase protectionistic pressures while unstable exchange rates add to uncertainty.

The difficult international environment makes it all the more critical for our manufacturers to restructure quickly towards technology and skill intensive industries. These are less vulnerable to protectionism and recession. EDB will vigorously identify and attract investments in such industries. It will also seek out industries with potential for fast growth and promote investment in specialized services such as aircraft servicing, computer software and engineering consultancy and design.

## Research and Development

Research and Development

In the last two Budget Statements, we have laid the framework of tax incentives and financial assistance for the encouragement of Research and Development (R&D) activities in Singapore, particularly in manufacturing. I am pleased to report that considerable success has been achieved in our promotion of R&D activities. Several projects, with significant R&D content, by international firms such as Nestle, Olivetti, Varta and Sord Computer are now in the pipeline. Other firms are also bringing in major R&D facilities as part of their investment projects. We expect to see further progress in industrial R&D activities in electronics, computer hardware and software, pharmaceuticals, robotics and automation systems and biotechnology.

Last year, Members were informed that a sum of $10 million was provided in the Budget to finance research and development. This sum has since been raised to $50 million. So far, grants totalling $111/2 million have been approved to support 14 projects in the engineering, medical and biomedical fields. The bulk of these projects will be undertaken by the National University of Singapore (NUS). In the coming year, we will encourage private sector firms to undertake joint research projects with the NUS and our other statutory boards.

A crucial element in the development of R&D activities will be the interaction between university and industry. The success of the R&D Open House conducted by the NUS last year was very encouraging. We will continue to foster this interaction between the university staff and private

sector researchers. When the first phase of the Kent Ridge Science Park is ready in 1983, we will have a focal point to enhance this interaction.

I am confident that we have the talent to achieve our ultimate aim of building up R&D capability in selected areas of technology. With the progress being made in industrial R&D, real opportunities now exist in Singapore for highly qualified R&D scientists and engineers.

## Trade Development

Trade Development

Trade protectionism continued to rise in 1981 as recession and unemployment worsened in the industrialized countries. We were not spared from its effects. Accusations of dumping were made against a number of our products, including microwave ovens, colour television sets, drywood screws, refrigerators and refrigerator compressors. Instigated by protectionistic lobbies in the industrialized nations, restrictions under the euphemism of 'product graduation' were added to the Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GSP). Our exports of radios, transistors and plywood were among the products affected in the GSP. The increasingly protectionistic mood was also seen in the international textile trade as restrictions were continued in the new Multi-Fibre Agreement concluded last year.

Until the industrialized countries restore the health of their economies and increase employment, protectionism will continue to rear its ugly head in international trade. Being a small economy, our best defence against trade protectionism is to increase our productivity so that our goods will still be competitive in price and quality despite protectionistic barriers. We will need to expand our domestic exports by enlarging existing markets and penetrating new ones to provide the impetus for growth. In the longer term, as we restructure our economy and move into the production of more higher value-added products, we will be less vulnerable to protectionism.

A good example of local manufacturers responding to Government's call to restructure and upgrade workers' productivity is the textile and garment industry. Apart from investing in new and

improved machinery, the textile manufacturers have set up the first-ever centre to train craftsmen and technicians for the industry. With better trained workers who will enhance the industry's productivity and value-added content, we stand a better chance of overcoming protectionistic barriers.

In addition to general upgrading, the Department of Trade will continue to promote the orderly growth and development of shipping and trade in commodities. In particular, the Department will work towards improving and developing the marketing needs of our local companies.

More local manufacturers have been encouraged to promote their products overseas. In 1981, 178 Singapore companies took part in overseas trade fairs, missions and promotions organized by the Department of Trade. Participation in more fairs and missions in overseas markets will be organized in 1982 to promote exports specially from our printing and publishing, electronics, furniture, high fashion wear, and engineering industries. Missions to new markets in West Asia, Nordic countries and West Africa are also being planned.

The Department of Trade will continue with its programme of conducting marketing seminars and workshops which have been useful in assisting the development of marketing expertise of local companies.

Two overseas trade offices were set up in 1981 in Beijing and Rotterdam. New offices are planned in Europe and West Asia in 1982. Apan from servicing trade enquiries and coordinating trade fairs and missions, the overseas offices were also active in encouraging multi-national companies based in this region to organize missions to source-manufactured parts, components and other intermediates for their parent companies at home.

As the world economy continues to be plagued by rising protectionism, deeper recession and higher energy costs, ASEAN economic cooperation takes on an added significance for development of our external trade. The most progressive area of ASEAN economic cooperation was in trade liberalization under the ASEAN Pre-

ferential Trading Arrangements (PTA). In 1981, another 750 items were added to the ASEAN PTA bringing the total number of items enjoying preferential treatment to 6,581. Also the ceiling for items given across the board tariff concession of 20-25% was raised from US$50,000 to US$500,000. The number of such items had now increased to 7,800. The ceiling will be raised further this year. ASEAN has set up two Trade Promotion Centres in Tokyo and Rotterdam in 1981 to forge greater trade ties with the industrialized countries. In addition, ASEAN dialogues with developed countries have allowed all five member countries to benefit from trade and investment with these countries.

## Financial Services

Financial Services

In the last decade, we have laid a sound infrastructure for international financial services. In the next 10 years we will have to develop even more sophisticated services for a larger international clientele, Emphasis is being given in particular to the development of the foreign exchange market, both in the depth and breadth of services provided, and to the loan syndication market. Development in these two areas were aided by the entry of foreign legal expertise and the availability of other ancillary services such as 24-hour high quality printing and sophisticated telecommunication facilities. Last year, 11 offshore banks, four merchant banks and five insurers opened offices. Local banks and financial institutions are becominp increasingly aware of the more competitive domestic and international environment and of the need to be more productive. They are promoting the wider use of automated teller machines. The Automated Cheque Clearing System is scheduled to start on 1st September, 1982. This is expected to improve productivity as well as provide better services to bank customers. To increase the spectrum of services provided, new services such as a financial futures market and a US Dollar Clearing System will be investigated. At the same time, efforts will be made to upgrade the quality of services provided by the Gold Exchange of Singapore. Floating rate certificates of deposit denominated in Singapore dollars were issued for the first time last year, giving the public

another avenue for investing in medium and long-term instruments.

## Computerization

Computerization

We have made further progress in promoting the wider use of computers in Singapore. The National Computer Board (NCB) officially came into being on 1st September, 1981. It will promote computerization in the Civil Service, establish and maintain standards of computer training and develop Singapore as a computer software centre. So far, computerization projects in ten Ministries costing a total of $95 million have been identified, Work on these projects is progressing smoothly.

"We will be making a start in overcoming the shortage of computer personnel when the Institute of Systems Science at the National University of Singapore and the Japan-Singapore Institute of Software Technology commence full operation this year. The Polytechnic is also looking into the establishment of an Institute for full-time computer studies to train programmers and systems analysts at Diploma level. To maintain the standards of computer education, a professional examination syndicate will be set up to conduct computer examinations in Singapore.

Our secondary and pre-university students already have the opportunity to acquaint themselves with computers. Computer Science is being offered as an "A" level subject in Junior Colleges and computer appreciation clubs have been formed in 91 secondary schools. By July 1982, all existing secondary schools will be staffed with trained teachers and equipped with microcomputer systems.

As a step to promote the computer software industry, the NCB is exploring the possibility of erecting a complex within the proposed Kent Ridge Science Park to house software companies.

## Tourism

Tourism

The tourist sector is important for us because it provides many opportunities for our local businessmen. In the early years, we spent considerable efforts to

develop the tourist industry. Today the industry has matured. Stimulated by the promotion efforts of the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board (STPB), more and more visitors are coming to Singapore because of our growing importance as an air traffic junction and business centre, and because of our clean, green and orderly environment. Last year, 2.83 million visitors came to Singapore, an increase of 10% despite the more difficult economic conditions in the major tourist-generating countries. Tourism earnings in 1981 are estimated at $3.2 billion. We expect the industry to remain buoyant and that we will welcome our 3-millionth visitor in 1982.

Spurred by good profits, hotel development is proceeding well. Another 1,480 rooms will be completed in 1982. This should help to stabilize hotel room rates which have increased substantially in the past few years and which threaten to price Singapore out of the tourist circuit.

230 conventions and meetings took place in 1981, the same as in the previous year. Growth was probably restrained because of the lack of a major convention facility. However, this shortcoming will be corrected when the Raffles City development is completed. In the meantime, marketing efforts are being made to attract large conventions in the second half of this decade.

Despite the maturity of the tourist industry, we will press on with our efforts to ensure that tourists will continue to come. Several exciting tourist attractions, including a Theme Park, have been proposed by international entrepreneurs. A group of investors has also proposed plans to build a beach resort hotel on Sentosa Island.

As the tourist industry is labour-intensive, manpower will be a critical factor in the next five years when new hotels come onto the market. In view of our intention to put an end to our dependence on foreign labour, the industry faces an exacting challenge to find better ways of using labour without sacrificing service. The VITB, in conjunction with the Singapore Hotel Association, will begin a hotel apprenticeship scheme for middle level hotel management staff in July.

## Manpower Development

Manpower Development

I think it bears repeating that manpower training and development is the decisive factor in the restructuring of our economy and in achieving our objective of full, better paid and higher skilled employment. We have laid the foundations of a comprehensive manpower upgrading programme over the past few years, especially in the last two. Our tertiary, vocational and training institutions are being vastly expanded. The Skills Development Fund has widened the scope of its financial assistance under various training schemes, There are plans to upgrade the skills of existing workers on a wider scale through the establishment of an Institute of Continuing Occupational Development. The NTUC has also on its own prepared a comprehensive and commendable programme to help its members who have missed the opportunity of a basic education.

Having sown the seeds, we must allow time for our manpower development programmes to grow and fruit. The gestation period for some of these programmes can be up to half a decade. In the meantime, we must ensure that the programmes provide the kind of manpower that will sustain our economic and social development in years to come. Out-dated syllabi have to be weeded out. New courses to keep up with fast changing technology have to be grafted onto existing ones.

Our policy is to free ourselves from reliance on foreign labour by the end of this decade. With diminishing growth in the pool of indigenous labour in future years resulting from declining birth rates, we can only achieve high economic growth without foreign labour if we improve the productivity of our workers and get more citizens to join the workforce.

We first started our productivity drive when we launched the wage-correction policy in June 1979. The thrust of this policy was to bring wages up to equilibrium level through three successive years of higher wage increases recommended by the National Wages Council. This would

compel employers to disgorge unnecessary labour and invest in labour-saving equipment and machinery to further economize on the use of manpower. This policy had the desired effects. Private investment in capital equipment and machinery in the last three years (1979-81) has been substantial. It increased at an average annual rate of 25%. This augurs well for future productivity growth.

In the meantime, the shock effect of the wage policy on emproyers has also caused productivity to grow at a faster rate of 5-6% per annum. There will be further favourable effects on productivity growth when students from our expanded tertiary and training institutions join the workforce in future years and when we have succeeded in retraining our workers.

In the last few years, the technology for automation and robotization has made great strides and robots are increasingly being used in manufacturing industries in Japan and the United States. Industrial automation and robotization can make a tremendous contribution in raising the productivity of manufacturing. It will also ensure better product quality control, provide a safe and pleasant working environment and place our educated workforce in the forefront of automation technology. To promote the wider use of industrial robots and automated production especially by those companies that can no longer obtain workers from non-traditional sources but still wish to operate from Singapore, the Government will provide incentives for the purchase of robots or other types of automated production equipment where there is significant labour saving, if these companies are not already enjoying incentives under the Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income Tax) Act. Such purchases can be depreciated over one year and will be given an investment allowance of up to 50%. Loans provided by the Economic Development Board under the Small Industries Finance Scheme will be liberally granted for the purchase of robots or automated equipment. The Skills Development Fund will also be requested to extend the maximum possible grant under its mechanization scheme to companies buying such equipment.

Last year, we conducted a blitz on poor work attitudes and the need to foster team spirit at the workplace. By doing so, we have opened up another front in our drive towards high productivity growth in the Eighties. The human aspects of productivity improvement that are being emphasized will complement the expanded training programmes and increased capital investments that are undertaken. The National Productivity Council was formed to promote this important approach to productivity improvement. Its representatives are drawn from the Government, the business groups and the trade unions. As good team spirit at the workplace contributes to productivity, the Council is examining how workers can be encouraged to identify themselves more closely with the company they work in by means of company-based welfare benefits and other measures.

On the human aspects of productivity improvement, the Government is sefting the example by formulating a five-year plan to introduce quality control circles called Work Improvement Teams (WITS) in the Civil Service and Statutory Boards. The objectives are to improve productivity, staff morale and team spirit through staff participation, involvement and contribution. In conjunction with this, the Government has also started a Welfare programme with funds allocated to the various Ministries for expenditure on staff welfare and recreation. All these programmes are inspired by the recommendations made by the Committee on Productivity. In 1982 we should see more of the Committee's recommendations come to fruition.

I have mentioned that it is important to get more of our citizens into the workforce if we are not to rely on foreign labour. In 1981, the labour force participation rate among males was 81.1%. The femate participation rate was only 44.8%. We will have to be more imaginative and more determined in our efforts at retaining a large number of our womenfolk in the labour force without however endangering the upbringing of our children. The family unit is the most fundamental building block in our society and it is an institu-

tion which we must cherish and preserve even at the cost of sacrificing some economic growth.

There are an estimated 44,000 experienced retired persons in the population. We must try to bring as many as possible back into the mainstream of economic life. A Committee on the Care of the Aged is looking into this issue among others.

## Energy Development

Energy Development

The most encouraging trend in the world economy today is the oil glut, which has arrested the spiralling crude prices of the last three years. The oil glut will enable us to have stable prices of oil in the next year or so. The world will have a better chance of recovering from the current depressed economic condition and also be better protected against unforeseen political events that can disrupt supply. However, we must not be lulled by the atmosphere of glut and distressed prices in the oil market to disregard the need to be efficient in the use of energy. There is a glut only because demand has fallen much below supply owing to the recessionary conditions and past conservation efforts, Supply is still scarce and the long-term security of some of the sources remains in doubt. We must therefore press on with our efforts to reduce wastage in the use of electricity, oil and other fuel.

In this regard, I am very pleased to report that there are indications that our economy is responding well to the call to conserve energy. Since the second oil shock of 1979-80 the ratio of growth in electricity consumption to growth in the economy has fallen steadily from a high level of 1.83 in 1978 to 0.77 in 1980. In 1981, this ratio decreased further to 0.75. It means that we are using less and less electricity to produce each additional unit of output.

Our economy has continued to grow at a fast pace despite higher energy prices. And because our industries have found ways to operate with less energy, we will be better placed than others to respond to the next oil crisis. I attribute the improvement in energy efficiency to the effects of high energy prices. Our policy of not subsidizing world market prices and allowing

cost increases to be passed on as soon as possible to the final consumer was thus in the right direction.

In spite of our success, we must continue to encourage energy conservation through persuasion, incentives and disincentives. In May this year, the Ministry of Trade and Industry together with the PUB and other organizations will be conducting another Energy Conservation Campaign to raise the level of energy-saving consciousness created in last year's campaign. Although the message will have to be got across to all sectors, the major emphasis of this year's campaign will be on the manufacturing industry which is the largest energy consuming sector in Singapore.

Last year, the Government announced that the provision on accelerated depreciation in the Income Tax Act will be extended to cover approved energy-saving expenditure incurred by non-industrial enterprises. The guidelines for these incentives have been finalized and are set out in the Annex I (Cols. 829 - 832) to this Statement.

Annex I - ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE TO APPROVED ENERGY-SAVING EQUIPMENT IN NON-INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES (Cols. 829 - 832)

Effective from 1st January, 1982, commercial buildings which have not complied with the Overall Thermal Transfer Value (OTTV) requirement set by the Building Control Division (BCD) would have to pay a surcharge of 20% tax on their electricity bills. Since the imposition of the OTTV requirement, 155 commercial buildings have taken or will be taking measures to comply. 49 buildings which have failed to comply are paying the 20% surcharge.

In line with the strategy of diversifying away from oil, the Public Utilities Board (PUB) has commissioned external consultants to undertake a study on coal-fired power stations. This study has recently been completed. The PUB is now in the process of studying the consultant's report and will then be in a position to recommend whether coal-fired power stations should be constructed in Singapore. Another energy alternative is natural gas which has been found in substantial quantities in the region.

## Construction

Construction

Although accounting for only 5% of our GDP, the construction industry is of vital importance in our economic policy. It is the sector that builds the physical infrastructure - ports, roads, factories, offices, hotels, houses and flats - required to accommodate our economic activities and our citizens, Over this decade, the construction industry will figure even more in our economic plan because of the additional challenge it faces of having to build 290,000 new HDB flats for our population by 1990. Its performance is therefore of some concern. In the recent past, its capacity has been stretched to the limit leading to supply bottlenecks and escalating construction prices. It has lagged seriously behind the rest of the economy in upgrading. At a time when we are short of workers, the industry remains labour-intensive using the technology of yesteryear. Last year, productivity in construction actually declined.

If we are to succeed in restructuring our economy so that better employment can be provided and if all Singapore families are to have homes of their own in time, the industry will have to make a marked improvement in productivity. A permanent and skilled pool of local construction workers who are paid a good wage will be necessary. The Ministry of National Development has been looking into all possible measures to build up this pool of permanent construction workers, including the setting up of a special training school.

Training of workers, however, takes time. Because of the aversion of our population to the construction trade, it will be some while before we can increase the local pool of permanent construction workers. With the dwindling indigenous supply of workers in general and our policy to reduce dependence on foreign workers, the only way to enable the industry to fulfil the tasks set for it in this decade is to mechanize, and to do it swiftly. To promote mechanization, the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Finance have implemented a loan scheme at concessionary rates of interest to

finance the purchase of machinery as well as a scheme for according accelerated depreciation allowances for construction machinery. To give a further push to the pace of mechanization in the industry, an investment allowance scheme, similar to that currently applicable to certain manufacturing projects, will be made available to the construction industry. Approved fixed investment in machinery and equipment by construction firms from 1st April, 1982, to 31st March, 1987, will enjoy an investment allowance of up to 50%.

The construction industry must move quickly towards prefabrication. A start in this direction has been made by the award of two contracts by the HDB for the construction of 30,000 units of public housing by prefabricated methods, More widespread use of prefabrication requires supporting investment in factories to produce the building components. The Economic Development Board will help to promote such investment and will consider granting pioneer status and other incentives under the Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income Tax) Act where necessary.

Whether or not our construction industry can respond to the challenges in this decade depends to a large extent on our contractors. They must upgrade their expertise and management skills. They must learn to apply the more mechanized methods of construction from Europe, Japan and the United States. The cyclical nature of the industry has added to the uncertainty in contracting business and discouraged contractors from taking a long-term view. To overcome this, the Housing and Development Board has initiated a scheme to nurture a group of core contractors similar to that in Japan and South Korea. These contractors will be assured of continuous work and be given a margin of preference of up to 5% over non-core contractors. Core contractors, however, will be required to employ on a permanent basis highly skilled workers and professionals, promote skill training and adopt mechanized methods of construction. The scheme, if successful, will

be extended to other public sector organizations.

With these and other measures, the construction industry will have a fair chance of success in meeting the tasks ahead. In future years Singaporeans can look forward to a greater supply of homes which will be within their means. Another 58,000 public housing units will be completed in the next two years. This is nearly double the figure of the last two years which was 33,000. For those who are not eligible for HDB flats, 21,000 private and HUDC housing units will be available in the next three to four years, more than enough to meet demand for some time to come.

## Concluding Remarks on Economic Policy

Concluding Remarks on Economic Policy

In the course of preparing this Budget Statement, I went through the past Statements which had been presented by my Cabinet colleagues. One recurring feature of Budget Statements in recent years is that each year the Statement has warned of difficult times ahead, and each year our economy has grown strongly.

In retrospect, the past foreboding of difficult times has been proved to be fully justified by subsequent events. It is not a case of crying "Wolf". The GDP growth rate of OECD countries has fallen substantially from 3.8% in 1978 to 3.4%, 1.3% and 1 1/4% respectively in the following three years. Their unemployment rates have risen from 5.2% in 1978 to 7 1/4% last year. With each passing year the world economy has indeed become more difficult to live with. That we have done well in the face of an inhospitable economic environment is due to sheer hard-work, grit, determination and adaptability on the pan of our workers and managers, correct economic policies and to the good rapport built up over many years between our unions, employers and the Government. By working as a team we have synchronized the pushes and the pull on the pistons of our economic engine so that it could run smoothly along the undulating and winding road without mishap.

We must, however, not allow the smooth drive that we have had so far to lull us into complacency. Once stalled in

the valleys, it will require stupendous effort to overcome the inertia of the engine and to restart it. We must therefore press on with greater urgency to restructure our economic activities. Employers in all sectors, and particularly in commerce and construction whose productivity improvements have lagged behind others, must find better ways to carry out their business, using machines, computers, robots, new systems and new technology so that our scarce and valuable human resources are deployed most effectively. Managers must lead, reward their workers fairly and motivate them to give of their best. Workers must learn to work more intelligently and efficiently in their existing occupations and diligently seek to acquire new skills. Teachers and instructors must devise fresh and imaginative ways to impart up-to-date skills and the right attitude to their students so that the working population that comes out of our schools, training institutions and university will be better with each passing year.

The world economy at this point in 1982 is gloomier than last year. There is hardly any economic growth. Unemployment and interest rates are high. The largest of the world economies, the United States, is in a recession. How deep the recession will be is a matter of serious concern all over the world. If the US economy shows no sign of recovery by the middle of the year and interest rates return to the record levels set last year, the world economy will go into a tailspin. Even if recovery takes place, it will be slow. Growifig trade friction between Japan and the other OECD countries have led to strident demands in the United States for legislation to unilaterally impose "trade reciprocity", a concept which'threatens the very foundation of the world's free trade system. If world trade declines, economic growth in Singapore, as well as in other countries, will grind to a halt. My message to Singaporeans is therefore: we must pull up our socks if we want to avoid being dragged into the quagmire of economic stagnation. The Government will govern firmly and fairly, steering our economic engine with the policies I have just presented and the Budget and tax changes that follow. Barring a major adverse turn of events, and

this caveat bears repeating, because we live in a troubled world where economic disasters have become the rule rather than the exception, if we cooperate and work with the same determination as last year, we may hope &p pull through 1982 with a respectable rate of economic growth yet again.

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: Dr Tan, I propose to take the Suspension now. I suspend the Sitting and will take the Chair again at 5.15 p.m.

## Sitting accordingly suspended at

Sitting accordingly suspended at

## 4.47 p.m. until 5.15 p.m.

4.47 p.m. until 5.15 p.m.

## Sitting resumed at 5.15 p.m.

## Sitting resumed at 5.15 p.m.

Sitting resumed at 5.15 p.m.

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

Resumption of Motion.

Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam

**Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam:**

Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: Mr Speaker, Sir, I now turn to the FY 1982 Budget.

The objectives of the Budget are to -

(a) increase the supply of skilled, technical and professional manpower needed to facilitate the restructuring and upgrading of the economy;

(b) step up infrastructural, industrial and commercial development so as to sustain economic growth and promote economic restructuring, and

(c) accelerate the public housing construction programme to meet the rising demand for housing units.

The total estimated expenditure (excluding the transfer from the Consolidated Fund to the Development Fund) for FY 1982 is $12,440 million. Of this, $7,156 million or nearly 60% is for education and manpower training; infrastructure, industrial and commercial development as well as public housing.

The recurrent expenditure of Government programmes totals $5,591 million. This is 22% higher than that for FY 1981 and should be adequate to cover rising costs as well as expansion of essential functions, such as education and manpower training.

Expenditure on manpower is expected to rise by $188 million or 16%. The rate of increase is moderate because of a net total reduction of 168 posts on the permanent establishment. The total number of posts on the FY 82 permanent establishment will be 68,677 as against 68,845 on the FY 81 permanent establishment. Substantial reductions in manpower have been effected by the Ministries of Environment (115 permanent and 1,817 daily-rated posts), Finance (187 permanent and 13 daily-rated posts) and Health (216 permanent posts). Less manpower is required because of increased staff productivity, reorganization of work procedures as well as mechanization and computerization of routine operations. The reductions in manpower of these Ministries have been partly offset by staff increases in other Ministries. The increases have been supported selectively and only in cases where the needs have been clearly demonstrated. These have been confined to Ministries with new or expanded areas of work, such as the new Overseas Missions, Bukit Merah Branch Library, Ponggol Fishing Port, Family Day-Care Scheme, Aerodrome Fire Fighting Service and Work Permit Division.

Excluding Armed Forces expenditure, Other Operating Expenditure will go up by $185 million or 42%. The increase is due mainly to the purchase of capital items, including office equipment, vehicles and vessels, interest equalization payments under the Fixed Rate Export Financing Scheme, and expenses connected with the management of Government assets. The increase in allocation for capital items is in accordance with the policy of promoting mechanization and computerization in Ministries and Departments. The balance is largely to meet higher costs of maintenance, rental, public utilities, supplies and materials.

Grants, Subsidies and Other Transfers will increase by $139 million or 24%. This is due largely to:

(i) annual salary increments, increase in CPF/MPF contribution and a contingency sum for the NWC wage supplement in FY 82 for the staff of statutory boards,

tertiary education institutions and aided schools;

(ii) a bigger provision for tuition grants to the students of the tertiary education institutions whose enrolment is expected to go up significantly in FY 82; and

(iii) an allocation of $20 million for the sening up of a revolving fund for loans to purchase personal microcomputers.

The recurrent expenditure will be fully met by the expected revenue of $7,639 million, leaving a surplus of $2,048 million for transfer to the Development Fund to help finance development expenditure.

A sum of $6,849 million or about 55% of the total budget will be spent on development projects. Outlays on infrastructural, industrial and commercial development, public housing as well as education and manpower training together account for 85% of the development budget.

Expenditure on infrastructural, industrial and commercial development will take up $3,001 million or 44% of the development outlay. This includes $1,720 million for the Petrochemical Corporation of Singapore, lines of credit to the Development Bank of Singapore, Ship Financing Scheme and Capital Assistance Scheme for the Construction Industry; $354 million for the development of Changi Airport and roads in the Republic; $294 million for the development of industrial estates by the Jurong Town Corporation as well as $151 million for the Economic Development Board's Capital Assistance Scheme and Product Development Assistance Scheme.

In line with the objective of accelerating the public housing construction programme, a total of $2,253 million or 33% of the development budget has been budgetted for this purpose. The number of HDB units to be completed annually will be increased substantially over the next few years.

The provision for education and manpower training is $548 million. This is to cater mainly for the School and Junior College Building Programme, Third Phase Development of the Kent Ridge Campus of the National University of Singapore, construction of a new complex for the

Nanyang Technological Institute and expansion of the Ngee Ann Technical College.

An amount of $52 million is set aside for the computerization programme of the Civil Service. The allocation is for the purchase of hardware as well as the development of software. Computerization will improve efficiency of Government operations and, in the long run, curb manpower increases in the Civil Service.

To utilize these budgetary allocations effectively, we need a competent and efficient Civil Service. As at the end of December 1981, a total of 10,613 posts or 15% of the permanent establishment was vacant. Although there are shortages of officers in a number of Ministries, recruitment is progressing and hop&ully the vacancy position will improve in the course of FY 82.

## REVENUE

REVENUE

The total estimated revenue for FY 1982 is $7,639 million, which is an increase of $106 million or 1.4% compared with the revised estimates of $7,533 million for FY 1981.

Income tax, as always, is the largest single source of revenue. Income tax collections in FY 1982 are expected to be high because of the economic growth in 1981. The total collection is estimated at $2,930 million, representing an increase of $330 million or 12.7% over the revised estimates for FY 1981. Corporate income taxes account for 72% of the total collection.

The total budgetted expenditure for FY 1982 is $12,440 million, comprising a recurrent expenditure of $5,591 million and a development expenditure of $6,849 million. The revenue of $7,639 million estimated for FY 1982 is, therefore, insufficient to finance total recurrent and development expenditures. Taking into account Development Fund income of $1,741 million, there remains a deficit of $3,060 million to be financed by borrowings and a drawing down from the Development Fund.

## TAX CHANGES

TAX CHANGES

The most exciting part of any Budget Statement, although in my view not necessarily the most important part, is the tax changes. For FY 1982, 1 do not intend to levy any new taxes or raise the rates of existing taxes.

Since 1978, we have progressively reduced personal income tax rates in order to afford relief from inflation and to ensure that our income tax will never be so high as to deter Singaporeans from wanting to work hard and earn more. Cumulatively, the tax concessions which we have given add up to a considerable amount. Even after taking into account the rise in nominal incomes due to inflation, the effective tax rates which Singaporeans pay today are lower than five years ago. In percentage terms, this reduction in effective tax rates has been most substantial at the lower income brackets. Let me take a simple example. Consider a person who had a net chargeable income of $5000 in the Year of Assessment 1977. His effective rate of tax in that year would be 7.5%. Even if his chargeable income has increased at the same rate as inflation, his effective tax rate in the Year of Assessment 1982 would have been reduced to 4.8%. This means that his effective tax rate has declined by more than one-third over the last five years. Taxpayers in the higher income brackets have also enjoyed similar, although smaller, reductions in effective tax rates. We must continue to make sure that our rates of income tax will never reach a level where they discourage hard work and stifle talent. However, for FY 1982, 1 have decided that it is not necessary to add to the concessions in personal Income Tax rates announced in the 1981 Budget and taking effect from the Year of Assessment 1982.

## Tax Changes for Individuals

Tax Changes for Individuals

These concessions in income tax rates will be at a cost estimated at $114 million to Revenue. Nevertheless the healthy state of our finances has made it possible for me to extend an additional four concessions for individual taxpayers.

## TAX ON PUB BILLS

TAX ON PUB BILLS

I have examined the basis of the tax on PUB bills and have decided that it should be changed. The prime objective of this tax is to ensure conservation in the use of electricity, gas and water. This being so, the tax should be levied on only those items in the PUB bill that vary according to consumption.

With effect from 1st April,1982, the fixed charges in the PUB bill will not be included for the purpose of computing the 10% tax. These charges are sanitary appliance fee, domestic refuse charge, rental for appliances and night soil removal fee. The tax, therefore, will be imposed on only the total of electricity, gas and water charges, and water-borne fee where these charges exceed $80. The tax will remain at 10% of the amount in excess of $80.

This change will effectively mean on average a rise in the exemption ceiling of between $4 and $9.

## Contributions to CPF and Approved Pension and Provident Funds

Contributions to CPF and Approved Pension and Provident Funds

High CPF contributions have, over the years, come to exceed the maximum amount allowable for tax deduction under the Income Tax Act. In 1979, the ceiling was raised from $4,000 to $5,000 for statutory CPF contributions and contributions to designated approved funds which are funds in lieu of the CPF. I am extending this concession to give greater relief to taxpayers.

With effect from Year of Assessment 1983, all statutory CPF contributions and contributions to designated approved pension and provident funds will be fully tax deductible. Where such contributions exceed $5,000, no deductions will be allowed for life insurance premiums and other voluntary contributions to super-annuation schemes. Where the statutory contributions do not exceed $5,000, the maximum amount deductible for all contributions to CPF and approved pension and provident funds and life insurance premiums will be $5,000.

This tax concession will result in a loss to Revenue of about $10 million.

## Aged Dependant Relief

Aged Dependant Relief

Members will know that Government is very concerned that the young should look after their aged dependants. The growing number of one-family nuclear households is not a healthy development. The elderly and dependent should not be left on their own. Family members should look after one another. The care of the aged is a complex matter and it will take time to work out appropriate government policies to encourage children to look after their aged parents. In the meantime, where there are obstacles which can be cleared or incentives, however modest, which can be given, we should do so forthwith.

I intend to make two revisions to the aged dependant relief. A taxpayer can currently claim a relief of $750 for each aged parent or grandparent living with him, subject to a maximum of two. For the relief to be allowed, one of the conditions is that the aged dependant must not have an income of more than $750 in the year.

With effect from Year of Assessment 1983, the relief will be raised to $1,000 per aged dependant. As a further relaxation of the conditions for eligibility of the relief, the relief will be allowed so long as the dependant has an income no greater than $1,500 in the year.

## ESTATE DUTY

ESTATE DUTY

On 1st January, 1981 the specific exemption for residential propedies was raised from $200,000 to $600,000. The exemption limit for assets other than residential properties remained at $100,000.

As a further concession to promote home ownership, the exemption limit for residential properties will be extended to include the full value of anyone residential property. In other words, the exemption limit will be $600,000 or the full value of any one residential property, whichever is the higher.

In line with income tax deductibility of CPF contributions, exemption will be given on all CPF balances of the estate with the

Fund. It will not include amounts withdrawn by the deceased during his lifetime under the approved schemes and not refunded to the CPF. Where the CPF balance exceeds $100,000, no further exeption will be given for other assets, except for those qualifying for the exemption on residential properties. Where the CPF balance does not exceed $100,000, the exemption limit of $100,000 for assets other than residential properties will apply to all such assets, including the CPF balance.

This concession will also apply to all approved provident funds which are in lieu of CPF.

To encourage offshore gold transactions as well as to further develop the gold market, gold deposits with bullion companies held by foreigners, who are neither resident nor domiciled in Singapore, will not be liable to estate duty.

The above concessions will take effect from 1st April, 1982.

## TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

I now come to the tax changes for corporate taxpayers.

## Stamp Duty on ACU Offshore Loan Agreements

Stamp Duty on ACU Offshore Loan Agreements

Stamp duty on ACU offshore loan agreements was abolished on 1st April, 1980. However, loan agreements which were signed outside Singapore would still be subject to ad valorem stamp duty up to a maximum of $500 when repatriated to Singapore. As a modest concession towards facilitating loan syndication activities in Singapore, I have agreed to allow ACU offshore loan agreements which were signed prior to 1st April, 1980 to be repatriated to Singapore without being liable to stamp duty as from 1st April, 1982.

## Road Tax on SBS and CSS Buses

Road Tax on SBS and CSS Buses

There is a need to rationalize road tax for buses that provide scheduled services, that is, those of the Singapore Bus Service (SBS) and the City Shuttle Service (CSS). Road tax on SBS buses presently is a flat rate of $6,500 per bus per annum, irrespective of the size or engine capacity of the

bus. This helps to encourage the deployment of bigger capacity buses. All SBS buses have a passenger capacity exceeding 46. The average passenger capacity is 65. In comparison, the road tax on CSS buses ranges between $400 and $1,600 per bus per annum, depending on the passenger capacity. CSS buses are smaller with passenger capacities of between 30 and 46.

I have decided to harmonize the road taxes to a uniform rate of $5,500 per bus per annum for all SBS and CSS buses of passenger capacity exceeding 46 with effect from 1st April, 1982. The road taxes on the smaller CSS buses will remain unchanged.

This will result in a loss to Revenue of $2.9 million per annum.

## Capital Allowances for Company Registered Cars

Capital Allowances for Company Registered Cars

Under the Income Tax legislation, capital allowances can be claimed on company registered cars. The ceiling of the capital allowances was last raised from $15,000 to $25,000 on 1st April,1979. With effectfrom 1st April, 1982, 1 have decided to increase this ceiling further to $35,000 to bring it more in line with present prices of cars.

## Financial Leasing

Financial Leasing

The lease financing market in Singapore, although not fully developed, is growing in importance and it is appropriate to lay down the broad tax framework for its operations. Financial leasing, as another form of financing, confers upon the lessor and the lessee tax benefits. For this reason, it is not only widely practised by companies genuinely engaged in lease financing but also by others, including related parties which enter into lease agreements for tax benefits.

Various representations have been made by leasing companies and financial institutions for liberalization of the present tax laws in order to promote financial leasing in Singapore. One of the proposals is that the residual value at the end of the lease period should be nominal or of a minimum acceptable value. The basic tax principle has always been that if an asset is disposed of, it must be or so deemed to be

sold at the open market price. Most major developed countries have adopted the same principle. Although it may be difficult initially leasing companies in Singapore should, in the course of time, be able to determine the open market price of the asset at the end of the lease period. Indeed, the profitability of the company will hinge largely on its ability to determine accurately the residual value of the assets. I have, therefore, agreed with the recommendation of the Tax Department to adopt the basis of open market price for determination of the residual value at the end of the lease period. A balancing charge will be imposed if the open market price is higher than the written down value at the time of disposal. If the open market price is lower than the wriften down value, then a balancing allowance will be given. The Tax Department will in practice accept an independent professional valuation for the purpose of determining the fair open market price of the asset.

It is important that a distinction should be made between a sale agreement and a lease agreement. For tax purposes, an agreement will not be considered as a genuine lease agreement if it provides for any of the following:

(i) The lessee is given an option to purchase the asset during the lease period or at its expiry;

(ii) Where there is no option to purchase, the lessee during the lease term or upon its expiry, acquires the asset at below open market price;

(iii) The rental payments during the initial lease term constitute almost all or at least 90% of the acquisition cost and incidental expenses. Additionally, either the lease term is shorter than the useful life of the leased asset, or the leased asset is not marketable and is a special purpose property, and the lessor has no intention to recover the asset;

(iv) The original lease agreement provides for extension or renewal of the agreement at less than 15% of the rental in the primary lease agreement; and

(v) The periodic lease payments are uneven and/or exceed the current fair rental value.

Transactions involving members of a group or related persons which are primarily motivated by tax manipulations will not be treated as genuine lease agreements. However, transactions which are done at arm's length are acceptable. A transaction is not considered to be at arm's length if a member of the lessee group lends to the lessor funds for the acquisition of the asset or guarantees any debt of the lessor incurred in connection with the lease. A transaction will also be disqualified if the leasing company is specially incorporated for the purpose of leasing the assets to the related companies. It is deemed to be so incorporated if, for any of its financial years, the value of its contracts entered with independent persons constitutes less than 50% of the total value of its contracts for that year.

Sale and lease-back transactions are generally not accepted as genuine lease agreements. They are treated as loans rather than lease agreements. However, the Tax Department will accept sale and lease-back transactions as genuine lease transactions if the equipment is sold to the lessor before it is put to use in the lessee's trade and the sale is made at not more than the acquisition price which the lessee pays to the supplier. The lessee must also not be given capital allowances for the equipment before its sale to the lessor.

Leveraged leases will be treated on an individual basis, upon application to the Tax Department.

The Tax Department will give accelerated depreciation to the lessor on equipment leased to a leskee who would be eligible for the accelerated depreciation had he purchased the equipment himself. In the event of termination of a lease agreement, the lessor can continue to claim the accelerated depreciation allowances if the equipment is subsequently leased to another lessee who is also eligible for such allowances. Otherwise the depreciated vaue of the equipment will be wrinen off on a straight line basis over the remaining statutory life of the equipment. However, the terminal payment paid by

the lessee to the lessor as compensation for terminating the lease will be subject to tax.

Mr Speaker, Sir, before I commence my concluding remarks, I should like to digress a moment and make a statement on Pensions.

## Pensions

Pensions

The Ministry of Finance has reviewed the New Singapore Allowance payable to certain locally domiciled pensioners. Following this review and discussions with the Pensioners' Association, the allowance is to be revised and will be called the "Singapore Allowance". It is fortuitous that the decision to revise this allowance has been taken at a time which allows me to announce it in this Budget Statement. Let me emphasize that it is not the intention nor should Members expect that pension revisions will be a regular feature of future Budget Statements. Pensions are payable for services rendered and are based on the length of service and salaries earned during such service. They are not

and should not be related to the salaries of current employees. These salaries are determined on the basis of various factors, including the market rate for the job, which are quite different from the basis on which pensions are payable.

From 1st April, 1982, the Singapore Allowance, which will replace the present New Singapore Allowance, will be paid to all locally domiciled Government pensioners whose gross pensions (i.e. pensions plus New Singapore Allowance) are less than $850 a month.

Those who are drawing pensions, excluding the current new Singapore Allowance, of $775 per month or less will be paid a Singapore Allowance at the flat rate of $75 per month. Those drawing pensions of more than $775 per month but less than $850 per month will be paid the Allowance on a reducing scale such that the pension plus the Singapore Allowance equals $850 per month.

Let me give you a few examples:

____________________________________________________________ Pension Current Current Singapore Gross Increase $pm NSA Gross Allowance Pension $pm (%) $pm Pension $pm from $pm 1.4.82 $pm 7 35 42 75 82 40 (95.2) 100 50 150 75 175 25 (16.7) 650 20 670 75 725 55 ( 8.2) 800 - 800 50 850 50 ( 6.3) ____________________________________________________________

The Singapore Allowance will benefit 97% of the 7,685 locally domiciled pensioners. Those now drawing the lowest gross pension of $42 per month will get the largest percentage gain of about 95% while those with a gross pension of $150 will gain about 17%. The Singapore Allowance will cost the Government some $2.8 million, a 10% increase in the pensions bill for the year.

## Conclusion

Conclusion

Mr Speaker, Sir, this Budget reflects our economy which is on an even steady keel. I have deliberately not introduced any new taxes or raised the rates of existing taxes in order not to increase the tax burden. However, I hope that Singaporeans will not look upon this Budget as an occasion for rejoicing but rather as a respite to enable them to consolidate and improve their position.

To perform better we must upgrade our present skills and seek to acquire new ones. There is no other way and we must not be deflected from this task. We have to work as a team in our homes, in our work places, in our community and as a nation. Other than a favourable location, we have no natural resources. It is only by working harder than others that we can make a future for ourselves and our children.

In the process of assimilating new technology and modern management methods, we must not forget the traditional values which have served as the bedrock of our society. We must not abdicate our moral duty to look after those who are

weak, old and infirm. Children must not forsake their parents and grandparents. The aged and the weak need more than material care; they have emotional and spiritual needs which only their children and their family can provide. It is the responsibility of the young to look after the aged. After all, the success of children in later life is built on the sweat and toil of their parents. Children, therefore, owe it to their parents to enable them to live out the autumn of their lives not only with pride and dignity, but also surrounded by affection and care.

1982 will be a grim year. The problems of unemployment and protectionism in the industrialized countries will not abate. Indeed, we will be lucky if these problems do not escalate. Singapore will, before very long, be buffeted by the turbulence of the international economic storm, We can go under, or we can resolve to ride out the storm. To do this, we must keep trim and be prepared to lend each other a hand when the need arises. Then, when the storm subsides we shall surge forward again.

Sir, I beg to move.

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1982 to 31 st March, 1983." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 84, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed on what day, Dr Tan?

Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam

**Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam:**

Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: On 15th March, 1982, Sir.

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 15th March, 1982." - [Mr E.W. Barker].

Adjourned accordingly at Eleven minutes to Six o'clock p.m. to Monday, 15th March, 1982.
