# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1986-03-07
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker);

---

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

3.50pm

Dr Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1986 to 31st March, 1987.

My Budget Statement this year will be somewhat different from those of previous years. For one, it has been more than a decade since a budget has had to be presented to deal with a severe recession. For another, it will be shorter. This is because, unlike in previous years, Parliament has already debated at great length on the state of the Singapore economy and the recommendations of the Economic Committee.

I, therefore, propose only to highlight the salient points of the Economic Committee's Report and elaborate on the measures which the Government intends to take in the next financial year to help us pull through the present economic recession.

## I REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

I REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

The causes of the present recession have been well documented in the Economic Committee's Report. Externally, we

have had to contend with a slowdown in international trade as a result of growing protectionism as well as structural changes in global demand and supply conditions affecting key sectors of our economy. The low and falling commodity prices which adversely affected the growth of our ASEAN neighbours have also resulted in less trade and tourist arrivals for us.

Internally, profit margins have been steadily eroded as wage costs outstripped increases in productivity. This has been aggravated by a sharp decline in construction and related activities following the completion of major private sector projects and the scaling down of our public housing programme.

The basic thrust of the Government's response to these problems has been elaborated by the First Deputy Prime Minister and I shall not repeat them. I would, however, like to emphasize that we do have considerable control over internal factors. Measures to reduce cost can and have been taken. We have among other things suspended payroll tax, cut skills development levy, and reduced CPF contributions. This will restore the international competitiveness of our firms and traders to a considerable extent. We can supplement these measures by striving hard to increase our productivity and the quality of our products and services. In essence, how we overcome the internal problems depends on ourselves and the sacrifices we are prepared to make.

The external factors we have little control over. We are a price taker in world markets. How we fare will depend on the world economy in general and the US economy in particular. The recent fall in world oil prices will hopefully quicken the upturn in activities expected for the US and other industrial economies.

Restoring economic growth must be the priority for the coming financial year. But while we tackle our present problems, we must not lose sight of longer term issues, in particular our future place in the world economy.

## Industrial Development

Industrial Development

Our industrial development in the years ahead will depend on the pace of auto-

mation, and, increasingly, on research and development. The present level of R&D expenditure is not high, accounting for only 0.6% of our GNP in 1984, although it has actually more than doubled since 1982.

This increasing trend should be encouraged to continue. More specialized research-oriented institutions along the lines of the Institute of Systems Science and the Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology must be established. However, this is only feasible if we have the necessary manpower. In this respect, the National University of Singapore (NUS) and Nanyang Technological Institute (NTI) should not let up in their efforts to train and acquire a wider pool of scientific experts. The Government will continue to assist by providing tax incentives and R&D grants to encourage private firms to undertake applied R&D activities. I will elaborate on this further when I come to the section on tax changes.

The structural changes accompanying the rapid rate of technological innovation in the developed countries will impact significantly on our future industrial development. Foreign companies that are currently automating their plants and operations will have insufficient resources to undertake any new investments overseas. Moreover, given the increased productivity from automation, there will be less economic advantage in establishing new facilities abroad simply to take advantage of lower wage costs.

It is, therefore, all the more critical that our manufacturers continually upgrade their operations and diversify their products. They should be more outward looking and seek out opportunities overseas. Being a small economy, we can never provide them with a big enough domestic market for them to survive and thrive.

## Trade Development

Trade Development

Until the industrialized countries restore the health of their economies and increase employment, protectionism will continue to be rife. Last year, we were not spared. There was no letting-up in countervailing duties and anti-dumping investigations on our exports.

Our best defence is to increase our productivity. At the same time, we must be nimble and adapt to changes in world markets and in demand and supply. For example, third country trade in commodities such as crude oil, rice, sugar and other products is estimated to be worth some $45 billion annually. Countertrade is another area which will grow in importance. A recent study has estimated that countertrade currently accounts for between 8% and 10% of world trade. Firms must grasp the complexities of these new trading activities quickly and translate them into realizable gains. It has been observed time and again that our entrepreneurs are not as quick to sense changes in demand and tastes and keep in step with these changes. It has been said that if a new product is showed in Japan today, it will be on sale in Hong Kong tomorrow, (the very next day) and Singapore stores will only have it the following week.

Our traders must be much more aggressive in their marketing strategies. They must know who their competitors are and what their consumers want. The Trade Development Board (TDB) will spearhead the Government's drive to expand and seek new markets for our traders. More export promotion activities will be devised and tailored to meet the needs of local exporters. The TDB will also help disseminate information to traders so as to assist them in penetrating non-traditional markets such as Latin America, Africa and South Asia. Greater efforts will be made at the same time to expand our traditional markets closer to home.

The Government will also minimize trade restrictions, simplify trade documentation and weed out bureaucratic red tape. Ultimately, however, it is the drive and the business acumen of our manufacturers and traders that will determine whether they succeed in the world.

## Financial Services

Financial Services

The demand for financial services in this region will continue to expand, considering that the Asia Pacific Region has been identified as a high growth area in the coming decades. Financial services, identified as having potential for growth, centre

around fee-based activities,such as fund management, and new financial instruments, such as financial futures. Fiscal incentives have been implemented to encourage the fund management industry, and these will be augmented by further incentives which I will shortly announce. The Singapore International Monetary Exchange has progressed satisfactorily and currently lists four financial futures contracts. Later this year, a stock index futures contract will be introduced. SIMEX is also expected to introduce options trading early next year.

On the domestic front, steps will be taken by the Government to develop a fixed rate securities market so as to pave the way for companies to raise fixed rate funds. In the equity market, the resolution of the problems currently facing the local stockbroking industry and the introduction of a new Securities Industry Act will mark a new chapter in the annals of our stock market. The corporatization of the industry has begun with the big four local banks gaining membership on the Stock Exchange of Singapore. This increased institutional participation will strengthen the industry and help regain investors' confidence in our stock market. Later this year, the unlisted securities market is expected to begin operations. This will provide an avenue for companies with good potential for growth, but which are unable to obtain a listing on the main board because of their limited track record, to raise capital.

A necessary prerequisite for further growth in any financial market is a sound and stable financial system. Therefore, in pursuing a strategy for growth, we must not lose sight for the need for uncompromising prudential standards. We will continue to monitor and maintain such standards.

## The Property Market

The Property Market

The Property Market Consultative Committee (PMCC) was formed to look specifically into the ills of the property sector. They have identified three major causes of the present slump, namely, unpredictable demand, excessive supply and a loss

of market confidence. They have made a number of recommendations to nurse the property market back to health. These proposals are now under active consideration by my ministry.

While property value will generally rise, given the scarcity of land in Singapore, one should expect it to peak and trough in accordance with the economic cycles. In time, the property glut will be absorbed. I would nevertheless like to assure the House that the Government will not do anything to aggravate the situation.

## Manpower Development

Manpower Development

The development strategy of many newly industrialized countries has shifted from the cheap "sweet-shop" type labour policy to one of cheap but high quality skills. We must, therefore, prepare ourselves for the competition. How have we fared so far? Are our workers better educated? Do they have the expertise necessary to cope with technological changes?

The proportion of professional, technical and skilled manpower has risen steadily from 13.6% in 1980 to 16.2% in 1985. At the same time, the proportion of production and related workers, and transport equipment operators declined from 38.8% in 1980 to 36.3% in 1985. This is mainly due to greater automation and mechanization in factories and speaks well for our drive towards higher productivity.

Despite our progress in education, our workforce is still less educated than those in the US, Japan and even Taiwan. Presently, only 5% of our total workforce have tertiary education compared to 19% in the US and Japan and 6% in Taiwan. At the bottom end, about 53% or more than half our workforce have no education or at most primary level education compared with 15% in the US, 35% in Japan and 45% in Taiwan. We must therefore continue to upgrade the education level of our population. This is a necessary prerequisite for future growth as industries increasingly automate and mechanize.

There is a limit to the number of graduates and skilled manpower that we

can ultimately produce in the long run. Given a declining population growth rate,our workforce is expected to increase by only 1% per annum by the year 2000. It is, therefore, crucial that we educate each individual to his or her maximum potential. What we lack in quantity we must make up for in quality.

It is essential that employers realize that they carry the main responsibility for upgrading and retraining workers. The workers must also play their part by being willing to attend retraining and upgrading programmes. Only then can we hope to improve our productivity and be prepared for the next phase of our growth.

## Concluding Remarks

Concluding Remarks

Over the last two decades we have made considerable progress - from a low wage, low skilled, low value-added economy to one based on higher skills and higher value-added. Despite the present setbacks and the urgency to implement measures to restore the health of the economy, we should not ignore the need for a longer term perspective.

In the short term, the Government has and will continue to take measures to overcome this recession. We will continually monitor the economic situation - both domestic and abroad, and prepare for the worst. We must regain our competitive position by ensuring that costs are minimized and red tape cut.

In the long term, we must all work together to maximize our potential. New investments must be found and the entire economic environment must be made favourable to business and enterprise.

The Government will continue to provide efficient infrastructure, educate and train our population to its fullest potential, and assist private enterprise to identify and seize new opportunities. In this regard, the Economic Committee's Report is timely. It has identified a number of growth areas which we will do well to exploit. If we do so and deal with the present recession correctly, we will be well placed to take off again.

## II FY 86 BUDGET

II FY 86 BUDGET

Mr Speaker, Sir, I now turn to the FY 86 Budget.

The Budget Document for the financial year 1986-7 has already been circulated to Members. Members will note that several changes have been made to the format of this year's document.

Previously, in addition to the main Budget Document, a Memorandum on the Budget was submitted alongside. This year the two have been merged into one unified document.

I have also taken cognizance of Members' request for a more meaningful comparison of estimates. For this reason, the estimates for FY 86 are now compared with the corresponding revised FY 85 estimates and not with the original budget figures.

The objectives of this year's expenditure budget are two-fold:

(a) To restrain the growth in recurrent expenditure.

(b) To stimulate the economy through increased development expenditure.

Total Government spending in FY 86 is estimated to be $22.06 billion, about $5.94 billion or 37% higher than the revised FY 85 expenditure. More than 60% of the total budget allocation for FY 86 is for development. As a proportion of GDP, Government expenditure is expected to rise sharply from 43% to nearly 60%. This is largely due to a substantial increase in provision for development expenditure, including loans to HDB for the purchase of land required for public housing. Excluding the funds for HDB land purchases, the expenditure to GDP ratio will rise from 35% to 43%.

The allocation for recurrent expenditure in FY 86 is $8.54 billion, about $1.41 billion or nearly 20% more than the revised FY 85 recurrent expenditure. The increase is due to higher public debt servicing and pension costs, and a sharp rise in the Government grant-in-aid to HDB. If this latter item is excluded, the recurrent expenditure for non-Defence Ministries and Organs of State will show a small increase of around 1.4%.

Public debt servicing costs are projected to increase by $1.01 billion or 68%. This is largely due to interest payments on new domestic loans that are expected to be raised in FY 86.

Pension payments are expected to go up by $33 million or 22% because of the large number of retirees.

The grant-in-aid to HDB is increased by nearly $496 million. Following the recent change in HDB's accounting system, the HDB accounts reflect more accurately the difference between the market value of land required for public housing and the lower value used in setting sales prices of flats. The grant-in-aid to HDB is increased to reflect this subsidy.

Excluding the grant-in-aid to HDB, the operating expenditure of the non-Defence Ministries and Organs of State is projected to drop by $130 million. Expenditure by MINDEF is expected to be $176 million lower than in FY 85. This decrease is partly offset by a slight increase in of $46 million in expenditure by the other Ministries and Organs of State.

A provision of $3.23 billion is set aside for the operating expenditure of the non-Defence Ministries and Organs of State. Of this, $1.80 billion or 56% is used for Expenditure on Manpower, $0,50 billion or 15% for Other Operating Expenditure, and $0.93 billion or 29% for Grants, Subsidies and Other Transfers.

Expenditure on Manpower is projected to increase by $54 million or 3%, much lower than the average annual increase of 16% over the FY 80-84 period. The moderate increase is due to the wage restraint policy and reductions in the authorised staff establishment. These reductions are possible as a result of higher productivity, implementation of mechanization, automation and computerization schemes, organizational reviews and changes in work procedures.

Over the FY 80-85 period, the permanent establishment of the public sector, including the self-financing statutory boards, increased by more than 10,000 posts. The public sector's share of total

employment also increased. A large part of this increase was due to the expansion of the tertiary and technical education institutions and the stepping up of the public housing programme. Our current public sector employment to population ratio is relatively high. Singapore's public sector employment to population ratio in 1984 was 5.3%, as compared with 3.0% in Japan, 1.6% in South Korea and 3.4% in Hong Kong.

The recession and fall in revenues make it more pressing to contain increases in establishment levels and manpower costs. Government has, therefore, decided that the permanent staff complement of Ministries and Statutory Boards should be reduced by 10% from the current level over the next five years. The 10 per cent target will apply to existing programmes and can be achieved through normal attrition, and more selective recruitment, plus increases in productivity. Manpower requirements for new services will be considered separately.

A comprehensive programme of manpower scrutinies will also be instituted in the public sector. The scrutiny programme will involve the critical examination by each Ministry and statutory board of its activities. The scrutinies will determine whether particular activities are necessary and if so whether they could be done at lower cost and with less manpower. Alternative means of achieving objectives including "privatization" of selected services will be examined.

I must reiterate that the 10% staff reduction can be achieved through normal attrition and more selective recruitment without the need for retrenchments. Every attempt will be made to retrain and redeploy redundant staff to other areas.

Government has accepted the Economic Committee's ? recommendations that the employers' CPF contribution rate be reduced and that there should be no increase in overall wage costs in 1986. With effect from 1 April 1986, the employers' CPF contribution rate in the public sector would be reduced to 10% in the case of non-pensionable officers and to 6% in the case of pensionable officers. The half-month incentive payment will

also be suspended. The suspension of the half-month incentive payment will mean a 4% reduction in the wage bill and this will offset increases arising from annual salary increments. Overall, the reduction in CPF rates and suspension of the incentive payment will result in a total savings of about $230 million in Government's wage bill.

Apart from manpower costs, Other Operating Expenditure of Ministries and Organs of State is also projected to fall by $34 million or 6%. This is due to stringent control by Government departments of operating costs. Discretionary expenditures, particularly those which will result in a leakage overseas (eg overseas travel) will be reduced significantly.

A modest increase of $26 million or 3% is expected in expenditure on Grants, Subsidies and Other Transfers, the bulk of which is to finance the operating deficits of the tertiary and technical education institutions, aided schools and other non-self-financing statutory boards. The low rate of increase reflects the wage restraint policy and tight control of operating costs.

Total development outlay for FY 86 is estimated to be $13.52 billion, an increase of $4.53 billion or 50% over the revised FY 85 expenditure. Expenditure on public housing, education and economic services takes up $12.39 billion or more than 90% of the development budget.

As I mentioned earlier, part of the increase in development outlay is due to the provision of loans to HDB for the purchase of land needed for public housing. Even after discounting these loans, development expenditure in FY 86 is expected to register a very substantial increase of $1.91 billion or 33%. The sharp rise is due to the accelerated implementation of major infrastructural projects. Apart from projects included in the FY 86 development budget, Ministries and statutory boards are expected to implement other new projects costing nearly $1.19 billion in total. These new projects are in the final stages of planning and when implemented can be expected to inject a further $0.37 billion in development expenditure in FY 86 alone.

A sum of $8.81 billion, equivalent to 65% of the budgetted development expenditure, is set aside for the public housing programme. The bulk of this provision is to cater for the purchase of land required for public housing.

The allocation for economic services is $3.23 billion or 24% of the development outlay. Of this, $2.37 billion is for land reclamation, development of industrial estates, the Mass Rapid Transit System, roads and other infrastructure. Loans and capital assistance grants totalling $0.75 billion will be extended to industrial and commercial enterprises.

The development budget for education and manpower training is $0.35 billion. This is for the school and junior college building programme, expansion of the National University of Singapore, Nanyang Technological Institute, Singapore and Ngee Ann Polytechnics as well as vocational and industrial training institutes.

## III REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

III REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

I now move on to the Government's revenue position. The impact of the many tax concessions announced since last year's Budget will be clearly felt on FY 86 Consolidated Revenue. A rebate on property tax for commercial and industrial properties has been granted. Taxes on gas and electricity charges have been suspended. The Government has also reduced or removed various customs and excise duties in the course of the year.

These measures are estimated to cost the Government $488 million in revenue per annum. A summary of these measures is being distributed to Members as Appendix I. (Cols. 441 - 442) Taking into consideration these concessions as well as declining revenues because of the recession, the FY 86 Consolidated Revenue is projected at $8.66 billion. This is a further drop of 3.3% compared with FY 85's revised estimate of $8.95 billion and FY 84's revenue of $10.06 billion.

Appendix I - SUMMARY OF FISCAL INCENTIVES ANNOUNCED IN 1985 WHICH AFFECT THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET (Cols. 441 - 442)

This year's accounts are complicated by the inclusion of land transactions between

HDB and Government. Both revenue and expenditure accounts are affected. After allowing for these accounting changes, the Government's overall financial position for FY 86 is expected to be in deficit by $3.22 billion. This is more than double the revised deficit estimate of $1.25 billion for FY 85. These deficits will be financed by drawdowns on our reserves and by domestic borrowings as I do not intend to introduce any new taxes or levies this year.

At this point, I would like to reassure Members that the taxes which have been temporarily suspended will not be reimposed for as long as it takes the economy to regain its vigour. Government will also not burden the private sector with unnecessary statutory costs. In particular, we will monitor how Government charges impact on our international competitiveness.

Of course, our revenue needs depend on our expenditure plans. In the longer term, I expect Government expenditure, particularly development expenditure, to decline. Much of Singapore's infrastructure is already in place and can be expected to stand us in good stead for many years to come. The public housing programme is reaching a plateau while road construction is nearing its limit.

Our strategy in the past has been to rely on economic growth to bring in sufficient revenue to meet Government's expenditure needs. As a result, rising incomes for companies and individuals have led to the growing importance of income tax as a source of revenue. Income tax collection yielded 33% of total revenue in l985 compared to 25% in l972. This was despite the fact that individual tax rates have been reduced four times and tax rebates given twice since l978.

The future revenue position, however, is not so certain. Already, the drop in company profits has reduced income tax collections from $3.4 billion in FY 84, to about $2.8 billion in FY 85. In addition, the three-year accelerated depreciation allowance introduced last year is expected to reduce taxable profits further.

The recently announced reductions in company and individual tax rates will further erode this revenue. However, these cuts are vital to the Government's longer term strategy to stimulate economic growth.

High taxes stifle initiative and enterprise. They also blunt our competitive edge. It is therefore necessary to reduce taxes to as low a level as we can possibly sustain. However, prudent financial management is essential in an open economy without natural resources. This Government is therefore committed to avoid getting into a permanent budget deficit. On this, I hope I have the support of all Members of this House.

Much will, of course, depend on the economic situation and the actual Budget position in the years ahead. But there may come a time when we need to look for new ways to raise revenue.

The First Deputy Prime Minister has already announced that some form of consumption tax is being considered. It is intended that we begin to put into place this year, the machinery needed for the collection of consumption taxes. An early start is necessary as we need time to evaluate alternatives and instal the administrative ? machinery.

Already, the proposal has sparked off keen interest and quick response from Members of this House and the public. I am well aware that consumption taxes will be unpopular. They are seen to be unwieldy, inflationary and bad for tourism. Whilst some aspects of these claims are undoubtedly true, my Ministry officials who are studying the issue will make every effort to ensure that the less desirable side-effects are mitigated.

Nonetheless, the need for consumption taxes must be seen in the larger context of Singapore's economic imperatives. If Singapore is to survive as an economic entity, its productive sectors must be competitive. As direct taxes are lowered to meet competition, a point may be reached when consumption taxes will have to be brought in to provide a compensatory source of revenue.

## Tax Changes

Tax Changes

I now move on to details of tax changes which were announced by the First Deputy Prime Minister in Parliament last week. I shall also deal with some of the other recommendations of the Economic Committee.

## Individuald Income Tax

Individuald Income Tax

In order to provide immediate relief to taxpayers, the Government has decided to give an across-the-board exceptional rebate of 25% on personal income tax for Year of Assessment 1986. Revenue loss is estimated at $250 million. For Year of Assessment 1987, I have decided to revise the personal income tax rates downwards. With your permission, Sir, I would like to table a schedule showing the revised rates (Appendix II) (Cols. 443 - 444).

Appendix II - REDUCTION IN PERSONAL INCOME TAX RATES WITH EFFECT FROM YEAR OF ASSESSMENT 1987 (Cols. 443 - 444)

Members will not that the top marginal rate has been brought down to 33% in line with the cut in the company tax rate whilst the lowest marginal rate has been reduced to 3.5% Under the new rates, taxpayers will enjoy a tax reduction of between 16.3% and 21.7%. As Members will also note, I have given a larger tax reduction to the middle-income group whose chargeable income falls within $15,000 to $100,000. This group currently bears nearly 50% of the total individual income tax burden. This should further motivate our skilled workers and young professionals to work even harder and earn more.

But I have not forgotten those in the lower income brackets. On top of the reduced rates, I intend to increase the rebate on the tax payable on the first $10,000 of chargeable income from 10% to 15%. This will further alleviate their tax burden. The revenue loss as a result of the reduction in tax rates is estimated at $193 million per annum.

I would like to reiterate that the Government will strive to lower income tax rates whenever possible. Being an open economy, dependent mainly on our human resources, we must never allow our tax burden to be so high as to become a ? disincentive to work and enterprise.

## Company Income Tax

Company Income Tax

The reduction in company tax rate to 33%. with effect from Year of Assessment 1987, will increase after-tax yields. The Government feels that a 33% tax rate, when compared with the rate in other countries, is sufficiently competitive to attract and retain investors.

I would, however, like to assure Members that we will continue to monitor our position and company tax rates will be reduced to meet competition whenever this proves necessary.

## Property Tax

Property Tax

A rebate of 30% on the property tax rate of 23% is presently given in respect of the following properties:

(i) All industrial and commercial properties,

(ii) Industrial and commercial lands which are vacant or under development, but including residential lands owned by development companies, and

(iii) Let-out URA, HDB and JTC properties.

As announced by the First Deputy Prime Minister, the rebate will now be deepened to 50% from 1 July 1986, and extended for a further two years until end 1988. Property owners are expected to pass on the additional 20% rebate to tenants, as in the previous exercise.

I now propose to introduce three additional changes to the property tax system.

First, with effect from l July 1986, all lands under private development will be fully exempt from property tax. The exemption will apply from the time construction begins to the time that TOL is granted. Details of the scheme are being worked out between my Ministry and the Ministry of National Development and these will be announced shortly.

Second, I propose to allow a change in the method of assessment of property tax for hotels. Presently guest rooms, restaurants and function rooms in hotels are assessed based on industry-wide indices

such as occupancy rate and tariff averages. This has led to some rigidity in the system. For example, if the occupancy rate of a particular hotel falls, this is not accompanied by a reduction in the property tax payable unless the occupancy rates of other hotels also fall. Consequently, a hotel with low occupancy ends up paying more than its due share of property tax, whilst one with high occupancy ends up paying less.

I have, therefore, agreed to allow property tax on guest rooms, restaurants and function rooms in gazetted hotels to be assessed based on actual annual gross receipts. The property tax will then more accurately reflect the actual tariff and occupancy rate of each hotel. With effect from l July 1986, their annual value will be pegged at l5% of gross receipts from room sales. Similarly, the annual value of food and beverage outlets in these hotels will be pegged at 5% of their gross sales.

The other parts of the hotel, such as management offices, shopping arcades and carparks, will continue to be assessed using the present method of assessment.

I am also pleased to say that the Inland Revenue Department is looking into the feasibility of extending this method of assessment to other properties where it is appropriate to do so.

Third, to ease the cashflow of all property owners, I propose to allow payment of property tax by monthly instalments. This will take effect from l July 1986. Instalment payments will, however, only be allowed through GIRO, including Inter-bank GIRO. This is so as not to increase the cost of collection.

To sum up, the above property and individual income tax concessions will result in a further loss in revenue of about $440 million in FY 86. The projected $3.22 billion FY 86 Budget deficit can therefore be expected to widen ? further.

## Investment Allowance

Investment Allowance

The Economic Committee has recommended the introduction of a 30% across-the-board Investment Allowance for

expenditure on capital equipment and machinery. The Committee feels that this will encourage continued investments in plant and equipment.

My Ministry does not disagree with the need to stimulate capital investment. However, we feel that the existing capital allowances are more than adequate. From Year of Assessment 85, capital expenditure incurred on all plant and machinery could be written off in three years. In addition, equipment such as computers, robots and automation equipment can be fully written off in one year.

We must allow the effects of these incentives to work their way through the system, before we consider new ? concessions.

The investment allowance proposal also has substantial revenue implications which must be carefully studied. It will alter the base of deductions for the computation of taxable profits and can affect income tax revenue collections permanently. It is for these reasons that we have not supported the proposal.

The EDB, however, administers an incentive scheme whereby investment allowance of up to 50% of capital expenditure can be enjoyed on investments in certain plant and equipment. As earlier announced, the EDB will be more liberal in granting allowances under their scheme, particularly to trading and service companies.

## Fund Management

Fund Management

The present tax incentive scheme for fund management confers exemption from Singapore taxes on investment gains from funds managed on behalf of non- resident investors by approved fund managers in Singapore. These fund managers need to have Asian Currency Unit (ACU) licences and must be approved by the MAS for purposes of the scheme. In addition, the fees they earn are taxed at a concessionary rate of 10%. To enjoy the incentive, however, the funds have to be invested in overseas markets.

The feedback from fund managers is that it is difficult for the fund management industry in Singapore to thrive if local

stocks and shares are not included in the scheme. Specialized fund managers who do not possess ACU licences have also indicated that they would like to participate in the scheme.

In view of this, I have decided to extend the incentive scheme for fund management to include:

(i) Investments in local stocks and shares, and

(ii) Fund managers who do not have ACU licences ? but are approved for the purpose by MAS.

This will take immediate effect.

The scheme essentially removes any Singapore tax liability that may arise as a result of the non-resident having his funds managed in Singapore.

As before, the incentive will be confined to non-resident investors. Presently, these investors are required to make a signed declaration of their non-resident status. This will no longer be necessary. Instead, the fund managers will have to affirm the non-resident status of their clients.

Investment management is one area which Singapore can develop effectively. We have the necessary financial infrastructure and an efficient international telecommunications network. Singapore is also well placed to service regional investors seeking world markets and global investors seeking regional investments. I am sure that these additional incentives will facilitate further growth of the fund management industry in Singapore.

## Post-Pioneer Incentive

Post-Pioneer Incentive

Pioneer incentives have been an important and useful tool in attracting high-value added investments to Singapore. Companies presently enjoying pioneer status pay no corporate tax. However, upon expiry of their pioneer period, they are taxed at the full corporate tax rate. This can lead to difficulties of adjustment when the full tax rate is levied.

To ease the transition, the Expansion Incentive scheme will be suitably modified to enable such companies to enjoy an effective company tax rate of as low as 10%. This will encourage pioneer com-

panies to continue their operations in Singapore upon expiry of their pioneer status. Details of the scheme are presently being worked out.

## Tax Deferred R&D Reserve

Tax Deferred R&D Reserve

The Economic Committee has identified the promotion of applied R&D as a cornerstone of our policy for industrial upgrading. I have, therefore, agreed to its recommendation that approved companies be allowed to set aside up to 20% of their taxable income as an R&D reserve which will be tax-exempt if spent within three years.

Presently available incentive schemes for R&D, that is, the 50% Investment Allowance on capital expenditure and the double deduction on operating expenses, will continue to be granted to approved companies. These amounts will, however, be offset against the 20 per cent reserve. Any part of the reserve remaining after three years will be taxed and interest charged on the amount of tax deferred.

This incentive will take effect from Year of Assessment 1987.

## Venture Capital Incentive

Venture Capital Incentive

In the l984 Budget Statement, the House was informed of an incentive scheme to encourage enterprising local companies to invest in non-traditional areas and new technologies. Investments in these new fields are risky but nevertheless necessary if we are to progress ahead.

Under the incentive scheme, a local company can write-off up to 50% of the equity invested in approved venture capital projects if the project incurs cumulative losses over three years. I propose to improve upon the scheme.

The investing company may now deduct, up to the full amount of its investment, any loss arising from the sale of shares in an approved project company. At the same time, the approved project company may carry-forward its losses for write-off against future profits. The scheme will also be extended to individuals.

These improvements to the scheme will apply to investments made after 1 April 1986. Other details are being worked out by my Ministry in consultation with EDB and these will be announced soon.

## Future Incentives

Future Incentives

The Government agrees with the Economic Committee that companies should be encouraged to establish their operational headquarters in Singapore. It also supports the recommendation that foreign income, particularly from the export of services and third country trading, should be taxed at a reduced rate in Singapore.

I have asked my officials to study the most appropriate fiscal measures to promote these activities. Details are being worked out and will be announced expeditiously.

The Economic Committee has also made a number of other tax recommendations. These relate to incentive schemes of one form or another. We recognize that incentives are still useful and necessary at this stage of our economic development. At the same time, I should emphasize that our intention isto eventually move towards a broad based low-tax regime. My Ministry will consider the other tax recommendations in the light of these ? considerations.

## Conclusion

Conclusion

Finally, Mr Speaker, Sir, we are in the midst of a severe recession. My priority in this Budget has therefore been economic recovery. Expenditure plans and tax changes were structured with this in mind. Not surprisingly, I have focussed primarily on the business sector.

I have also paid special emphasis in the tax incentives to areas where there is good market potential overseas. I believe that once growth returns to those sectors of our economy which trade with the world, prosperity will be restored to those sectors that do not.

Despite what the Government is doing, much of the success of our policies will depend on the world economic situation, over which we have little control. We should therefore not be overly sanguine about the pace of our recovery. However, I see no cause for despondency either, as there is much that we can do to help ourselves. We have excellent infrastructure already in place, adequate financial resources and negligible foreign debt; a very comfortable position from which to face adversity. What we now need is for all Singaporeans to join together in launching the next phase of our economic development.

I am certain that we will be able to overcome our temporary setbacks. We often forget that we started with very little. Since Independence, we have been fortunate and able to build up a significant inheritance for the next generation. The evidence is all around us. This was in no small measure due to a dedicated Government that could mobilize a committed people. I feel confident that a younger generation, led by a younger leadership, will be equally successful.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move.

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1986 to 31st March, 1987." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 84, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed, what day?

Dr Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Hu Tsu Tau: Monday, the 17th of March, 1986.

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 17th March, 1986." - [Mr S. Dhanabalan].

Adjourned accordingly at Thirteen minutes to Five o'clock pm to Monday, 17 March, 1986.
