# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1987-03-04
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker);

---

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

3.44 pm

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1987 to 31st March, 1988.

## SECTION I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

SECTION I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

Last year, when I delivered the Budget speech, the economy was in the throes of a recession, the worst in 20 years. No sector of the economy was spared. Overall, our GDP shrank by 1.8% in 1985, and about 00,000 jobs were lost. The recession continued into the first quarter of 1986. Companies were still folding and retrenchments continued, apparently unabated, with no prospect of recovery.

The Government acted swiftly. Various cost-cutting and fiscal measures recommended by the Economic Committee were implemented. They represented important policy changes that decisively improved our competitiveness. The lowering of employer's CPF contribution rate to 10%, the substantial reductions statutory charges and other costs, and the 50% cut in property taxes all helped to reduce operating costs and improve company profitability. Other measures designed to stimulate the economy and restore business confidence included rebates on personal income taxes, increased Government spending on infrastructural projects and a lowering of the corporate tax rate to 33% with effect from Year of Assessment 1987.

## PERFORMANCE IN 1986

PERFORMANCE IN 1986

These measures have paid off. How successful they have been is evident from the performance of the economy in 1986. The details can be found in the Annual Economic Survey which has already been released. I will therefore only highlight the salient points:

(i) The economy grew by 1.9% in 1986. This was an improvement over 1985, and was also better than our earlier projection of zero growth;

(ii) The employment situation too has brightened. Overall, 11,000 jobs (net) were created in 1986. Unemployment, which reached a high of 6.5% in June 1986, fell to 4.6% in December 1986;

(iii) Our non-oil domestic exports grew by 20% in 1986, compared to the 4% decline in 1985; and

(iv) Investment commitments reached $1.4 billion, a 27% growth over 1985,

although still less than the $1.8 billion registered in 1984.

However, these statistics must be interpreted with circumspection. They merely indicate that taken as a whole, the economy is recovering from the recession. But the recovery is not across the board. Not all the sectors of the economy have recovered or are doing well. Only manufacturing and transport and communications, which make up about half the economy, are performing satisfactorily. We must therefore not throw caution to the wind.

The recovery of our manufacturing sector was due mainly to the cost-cutting measures. These measures reduced total production cost by 10-15%, allowing our exporters to pass on some of the gains as price reduction in the international market. This, in turn, stimulated external demand for our goods. In the transport and communications sector, cost-cutting measures and particularly higher productivity have also generated robust growth, demonstrating how important it is for a price-taker like Singapore to be internationally competitive. I will elaborate on this point later.

The other half of the economy, which includes construction, trade and commerce, and financial and business services, has not done as well. The construction industry remains badly depressed due to the oversupply of properties. Growth in the trade and commerce sector remains weak, largely because of the slowdown in the regional economies caused by low commodity prices. As a result, recovery of the fiancial and business services sector has been modest, except for the offshore markets, which have done well.

We therefore cannot relax our efforts to restore the economy to steady growth. Our focus should be on the long term. We must aim for the targetted long-term growth rate of 4-6% per annum. Whether we succeed depends largely on the external environment, given the openness of our economy and our dependence on overseas mark everything to ensure that whatever happens, our chances of a sustained recovery are maximized.

## RESTORING INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS - WAGE RESTRAINT

RESTORING INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS - WAGE RESTRAINT

The importance of restoring our international competitiveness cannot be over-emphasized. We are a price-taker in international markets. We can only sell our goods and services if our prices are right. The loss of our international competitiveness was a key reason for our recession.

From 1980 to 1984, wage increases in Singapore far outstripped productivity growth, while in the NICs, wage increases were either lower or at least matched by productivity increases. Our competitive position against the other NICs weakened by as much as 50%. Details are shown in the charts (Cols. 111 - 114) which are being distributed to Members. In this period, external demand for our goods and services grew by only 5% per annum, whereas that of the other NICs expanded by 11% per annum. In short, the other NICs expanded their share of the international market at our expense.

charts - UNIT LABOUR COST OF SELECTED COUNTRIES, RELATIVE UNIT LABOUR COST AGAINST THE THREE NICs, 1980-1986 (Cols. 111 - 114)

Thus, last year our priority was to restore our international competitiveness through cost reduction. The employer's CPF contribution rate was cut by 15 percentage points, resulting in a 12% saving in wage costs. Statutory charges were also reduced. In addition, unions and management reacted responsibly to the Government's call for severe wage restraint. CPF records show that wage restraint has worked. Under this policy, nominal wages increased on average by only 0.7% in 1986 (December 86 compared to December 85), compared to 5.4% in 1985 and 12.3% per annum between 1980-84.

However, so far we have only managed to restore our competitive position to the 1982 level. We need to go one step further - to narrow our cost differentials with the NICs back to at least the 1981 level when our competitive position was relatively strong. This requires another year of low wage increases and high productivity growth. The wage restraint policy must therefore continue this year.

## MAINTAINING INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS

MAINTAINING INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS

(A) Wage Reform

We must also adopt a long-term perspective in addressing the issue of international competitiveness. It is not enough just to restore our cost-competitiveness. We must also ensure that we maintain our competitive position, once it is restored. This will only happen if we reform our wage system. The NWC Subcommittee on Wage Reform has published its Report. It explains clearly the need for such reform. There must be flexibility in our wage system, to allow us to cope with the uncertainties of the economy, by adjusting through wages rather than through unemployment. This is in the interests of both companies and workers.

The report provides guidelines on introducing a flexible wage system to the private sector. The public sector too formed a subcommittee to look into wage reform in the Civil Service. We must not miss this rare opportunity to reform our wage system, while memories of the recession are still fresh and the euphoria of recovery has not set in.

Government agencies such as the Ministry of Labour and the National Productivity Board will offer every assistance to help companies introduce flexible wage systems. I am pleased to note that so far, 64 companies including both MNCs and local firms, and three industry groups have taken active steps to introduce a flexible wage system. I encourage others which have not done so to act quickly.

(B) Long-Term CPF Contribution Rate

To tackle the problem of high wage costs directly, the Economic Committee recommended that the Government immediately reduce employer CPF contribution rates to 10%, for two years in the first instance. This was done.

The Committee also recommended that "the Government should review the CPF scheme from a longer term perspective, to decide on the appropriate long-term rate and structure of contributions that would meet the basic needs of the CPF scheme".

This is being done. Two different objectives have to be satisfied: we want to save as much as we can, in order to provide for the basic needs of retirement income, home ownership and Medisave; at the same time, the contribution rate must be one the economy can afford.

Although the long term target CPF rate cannot yet be determined, it is already clear that any increase in the CPF rate after these two years will have to be gradual. It will have to take into account the state of the economy and the conditions of the labour market. Any CPF rate increase must be implemented as part of an overall affordable increase in labour costs, so that our competitiveness will not again be affected. Investors can rest assured that the Government will not let our costs rise out of line again.

## LONG-TERM TRANSFORMATION OF THE ECONOMY

LONG-TERM TRANSFORMATION OF THE ECONOMY

The principal priority of the Government in the coming financial year will be to restore the economy to full health. At the same time, we must not lose sight of longer term issues, in particular, our place in the world economy. We are already implementing the longer-term recommendations of the Economic Committee to transform the economy. The Government, and particularly agencies such as EDB, TDB and MAS are pressing ahead along the New Directions. We plan to develop the economy in four main areas, viz. the upgrading of local businesses, and the promotion of investments, trade and services.

(A) Upgrading of Local Businesses

Local businesses occupy an important role in our economy. We must build a solid base of thriving and resilient local businesses. In this connection, the Small Enterprise Bureau (SEB) has, since its inception, worked closely with SISIR, NPB and TDB to implement various programmes to help local businesses. These programmes improve access to capital by small firms, and encourage them to adopt modern management methods, to improve efficiency, to upgrade their technology, and to build up their product design capability.

The response has been good, and more such programmes will be introduced. But the restructuring process will not be easy. Local businesses can be assured that the Government will give them every possible help to upgrade and modernise their operations to cope with the changing business environment. But Government help will not be enough. Our businessmen must have the will to adapt and adjust to changes, so that they can play their rightful role in the modern economy of Singapore.

Government remains committed to the view that the private sector should be the engine for economic development. To this end, Government has been gradually reducing its role in business. Guidelines for Government companies were first issued by my predecessor, Dr Tony Tan, in his 1985 Budget Speech, and I can do no better than repeat his statement:

(a) Government will invest in new priority industries only where private entrepreneurs do not have the will or the money to undertake projects on their own or where it is essential for Government to provide the entrepreneurship;

(b) Government will divest its shares in companies where it does not have a majority stake and where it is not essential for Government to have effective control;

(c) unlisted Government companies will, wherever possible, be listed on the Stock Exchange of Singapore; and

(d) for critical companies which are considered to be vital to the national interest, Government will maintain a controlling interest but where possible will invite participation from the public through listing on the Stock Exchange.

Since that time, Government has divested its interests in several companies and reduced its holdings in a number of others. In January 1986, a Public Sector Divestment Committee, comprising private sector representatives and Government officials, was set up to review and propose a programme for the privatisation of Government-owned enterprises. The Committee's role was to identify Government-owned enterprises suitable for privatisation and to recommend a privatisation

programme which will provide the widest possible public participation and also ensure continuity of quality management. This Committee, under the chairmanship of Mr Michael Fam, has completed its study and has presented its full report to Government. The report is being studied by the Ministry of Finance.

(B) Investment Promotion

While we do more to help local businesses upgrade and modernize, we must continue to attract more foreign investments to Singapore. We need foreign investments not only to generate and sustain economic growth but also to foster our economic restructuring and upgrading.

The EDB's intensive marketing efforts and cost-cutting measures have paid off. Investment commitments as I mentioned earlier, reached $1.4 billion in 1986, 27% more than in 1985. But caution is necessary. Foreign investments will no longer come easily. The competition for the investor dollar is getting more intense and we are competing not only against developing countries but even against many developed countries. MNCs seeking investment locations are evaluating us against countries such as Britain, Spain and even some states in the US.

EDB's aggressive marketing and promotion efforts alone will not succeed in attracting foreign investments to Singapore. Our fundamentals must also be right. We must continue to have a stable and rational Government which has the support of the people; we must preserve good industrial relations climate; we must improve our efficient, comprehensive infrastructure. Finally, we need a highly conducive business environment which can offer a higher rate of return than the OECD countries. Otherwise, there is no incentive for the investor to come to Singapore. Therefore, every effort must be made to keep costs low and competitive.

(C) Trade Promotion

TDB will continue its efforts to safeguard and expand our access to international

markets. We will continue to use all available avenues, such as international dialogues and forums, to argue for the maintenance of the system of free trade. But we must be prepared for more protectionist measures in the developed countries, the result of rising budget and trade deficits and rising unemployment. To safeguard our GSP entitlement, we will also have to resist premature attempts to graduate us to developed country status, which do not take into account limitations and the vulnerabilities of our small open economy.

Apart from resisting attempts to deny us market access, TDB will step up its efforts to promote Singapore's exports, particularly of new products and to new markets such as Latin America, India and China. The Market Development Assistance Scheme has helped local companies to export their products and services. So far $4 million has already been granted to more than 400 companies. Major Original Equipment Manufacturers have been encouraged to set up International Purchasing Offices (IPOs) here. In the electronic sector alone, there were 22 IPOs in 1986 compared to only 12 in 1985. TDB will also help local companies improve their product designs and packaging capability, to make them more competitive in international markets.

In line with the Economic Committee's recommendations, TDB will upgrade and promote our entrepot trade and develop Singapore into a Hub City offering sophisticated services to support trading activities. Our warehousing and distribution facilities are being improved. More feeder lines will be encouraged to use Singapore as the pivotal cargo port of this region. In addition, the Pioneer Service Incentive will be used to encourage countertrading companies to set up their regional offices here. To date, six such companies have been awarded the incentive. These companies are expected collectively to generate $4 billion worth of business over the next three years.

(D) Promotion of Services

Our investment promotion efforts no longer focus on manufacturing alone. This

is important as our present niche as a manufacturing base is constantly being challenged by the other NICs. They have more resources and cheaper labour than we do. While we will not abandon manufacturing, we must move aggressively into services, particularly knowledge-based and skill-intensive services where we have a comparative edge and advantage. This is the way to develop into an international total business centre.

The EDB has set up a Services Promotion Division to lead and coordinate efforts to promote services. The Government is extending tax incentives which were previously confined to manufacturing to a broader range of non-manufacturing activities.

The Operational Headquarters (OHQs) incentive was introduced last year to attract international companies to Singapore, to manage and provide a full range of services to subsidiaries in the region. OHQs are desirable as they bring with them substantial and pervasive direct and indirect benefits to the economy. EDB is working out together with international accounting companies and bankers the types of OHQs we want to promote in Singapore. Four companies have already been awarded the OHQ incentive, and many more have expressed interest.

Last year, the pioneer incentive was extended from manufacturing to service industries. We hope that this will attract more knowledge- and skill-intensive services companies to Singapore. I will be announcing later a new incentive to promote offshore services, and encourage our companies to take advantage of overseas business opportunities.

The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) will continue to actively promote development of banking and financial services. The Stock Exchange has been reorganised and revitalised. Development of the domestic capital markets is being augmented by the opening of a second exchange and by the launching of a new issue of marketable Government securities later this year.

Growth in the offshore banking sector and in fee based financial services has

been encouraging, following the package of financial incentives introduced last year. With the opening up of Tokyo as a financial centre and the rapid internationalisation of banking, competition in financial services is expected to intensify rapidly. Government will ensure that Singapore remains competitive as a regional financial centre by continuing to upgrade its infrastructural facilities and to make available a sufficiency of skilled manpower. We will also ensure that the fiscal environment remains hospitable and I will have more to say on this subject later in my speech.

## FISCAL POLICY

FISCAL POLICY

The tax cuts introduced in 1985 and 1986, at a cost of approximately $2.2 billion in lost revenue, together with other cost reduction measures and the wage restraint policy, have clearly worked to turn the economy around. However, it is not possible nor necessary to maintain some of the tax cuts indefinitely. The suspension of the tax on PUB bills, for example, and the concessions on property tax, will have to be reviewed when the economy has finally recovered. I can, however, give the assurance that tax concessions will remain in place for as long as necessary to maintain our international competitiveness.

I should caution, also, that further significant cuts in direct taxes cannot be expected without the compensatory introduction of some form of consumption taxation, as direct taxes are the main source of Government revenue, and structural deficits cannot be sustained in the long term. Naturally, we will look first to greater prudence in all areas of Government expenditure. In addition, we must ensure that Government programmes should be self-financing as far as possible, with minimal subsidies. In this connection, the level of subsidies appropriate for tertiary education has been reviewed, as announced by the Minister for Education this morning.

Concluding Remarks

1986 has been a watershed year in Singapore's economic history. For many Singaporeans, the recession was an awakening to economic realities. The

lessons learnt from the recession were painful, but they were timely. We have to accept that the era of double-digit growth is over. The economy is in a more mature phase of development. Henceforth, growth will be more difficult to achieve. It will only be achieved if we successfully restructure our economy.

To do this, we must capitalise on our only asset - our people. Education and training must therefore continue to be the focus of our development strategy. They are long-term investments that will yield social and economic returns. The Government will continue to expand and improve our various educational and training institutions. The successful infusion of skilled and trained manpower into the economy will provide the impetus for us to grow and progress into the 1990s and beyond.

Longer term, we face the even more difficult problem of an ageing population, made worse by a rapidly declining fertility rate, particularly amongst the better educated. These trends, unless addressed now, and reversed, will inexorably lead to a Singapore lacking in the brainpower and vigour needed to compete internationally. Amongst other measures, I will be introducing, later in my speech, a package of tax measures designed to encourage procreation.

## SECTION II - THE FY87 BUDGET

SECTION II - THE FY87 BUDGET

The slowdown in our GDP growth since 1984 and the tax cuts introduced in 1985 and 1986 have resulted in a substantial decline in tax revenue. The principal considerations in preparing the FY87 budget have therefore been to:

- ensure that recurrent expenditures are restrained so as to allow the recurrent budget to be balanced or to show a small surplus which could be used to fund development programmes which support economic recovery and longer-term economic growth

- minimize the overall budget deficit so that Government reserves are not run down significantly.

Recurrent expenditure increases for FY87 have been kept to the minimum necessary to maintain current levels of public services. Allocations for infrastructural development and capital assistance to the industrial and services sectors have, however, been stepped up.

Total Government spending in FY87 is estimated to be $18.67 billion, about $2.35 billion or 14% higher than the revised FY86 expenditure. Development outlays account for slightly more than half of total expenditure. As a proportion of GDP, Government expenditure is expected to rise from 43% to about 47%. This is largely due to a "once-off" increase in domestic debt servicing costs. Excluding debt servicing, the expenditure to GDP ratio will, in fact, drop slightly - from 40% to 39%.

Recurrent expenditure in FY87 is projected to reach $8.97 billion, about $2.58 billion or 41% higher than the revised FY86 level. Debt servicing costs account for $2.19 billion or nearly 85% of the increase. Excluding debt servicing, the estimated increase in recurrent expenditure would be about 7.7%, much lower than the average annual increase of 15% over the FY80-85 period.

The larger part of the increase in debt servicing costs is due to a "once-off" payment of $1.45 billion in backdated interest on CPF advance deposits which are expected to be converted to domestic registered stocks in 1987.

Pension payments are expected to rise by $11 million or 6% because of higher ex-gratia payments to officers leaving the Service.

Operating expenditure of Ministries and Organs of State is projected to go up by $389 million or 7.7%. Expenditure by the Ministry of Defence is expected to be $94 million higher than in FY86. Expenditure by the other Ministries and Organs of State will increase by $295 million or 10%.

A provision of $3.23 billion is set aside for the recurrent expenditure of the non-Defence Ministries and Organs of State. Of this, $1.68 billion or 52% is for Expenditure on Manpower, $0.59 billion or 18% for Other Operating Expenditure and $0.96

billion or 30% for Grants, Subsidies and Other Transfers.

Expenditure on Manpower is projected to increase by $89 million or 5.6% - much lower than the average annual increase of 14% over the period FY80-85. The moderate increase is due to the wage restraint policy and a reduction of nearly 1,160 posts from the authorized staff establishment. The reductions are possible following deletions of long-standing unfilled vacancies, implementation of mechanisation, automation and computerization schemes, organisational reviews and changes in work procedures. The reductions are also in line with the objective, which I announced in my Budget Statement last year, of reducing the overall public sector manpower complement by 10% by the end of this decade.

The gradual reduction of staffing levels and restraints on operating costs are part of an overall programme to improve productivity and enhance efficiency in the Civil Service. Members will recall that in my Budget Statement last year I announced the introduction of a programme of manpower scrutinies in the public sector. The scope of these scrutinies will in the coming year be widened to cover not only manpower requirements but also the running costs of activities. The scrutinies will involve a critical "zero-base" examination by Ministries and Statutory Boards of their major activities. Scrutinies will assess whether particular activities are necessary and, if so, whether they could be done at lower costs and with less manpower. Alternative means of achieving objectives including "privatization" of selected services and the contracting out of functions will be examined in the course of the scrutinies. The ultimate objective will be to ensure that public services are provided at least cost to the tax payer.

Other Operating Expenditure of Ministries and Organs of State is projected to increase by $52 million or 10%. The larger part of the increase is due to provision being made for the Ministry of Health to contract out to the private sector the supply of pharmaceutical materials of hospitals consequent upon the decision to wind down an old Government phar-

maceutical manufacturing facility and to farm out catering services at the Singapore General Hospital. Because of stringent control of operating costs, Other Operating Expenditure of the other Ministries and Organs of State is expected to increase by less than $22 million or 5%.

An increase of $153.6 million or 19% is expected in expenditure on Grants, Subsidies and Other Transfers. Of this, $50 million is for the creation of revolving funds for the provision of loans to NUS and NTI students to assist them in meeting the planned increases in student fees, details of which have been announced by Dr Tony Tan, the Minister for Education. Another $42 million is to finance the operating deficits of the tertiary and technical education institutions, aided schools and other Government-funded Statutory Boards. The HDB will be provided with a subsidy of $62 million to meet its operating deficit. This would be in addition to loan funds and capital subsidies totalling $6.26 billion provided under the development budget.

Development expenditure for FY87, inclusive of capital grants and net lending to Statutory Boards and public enterprises, is estimated to be $9.70 billion, a drop of $237 million or 2% compared with the revised FY86 expenditure. The drop is mainly due to a substantial decrease in loans to HDB for its construction programme and for purchases of land required for public housing.

Direct development expenditure by Ministries and Organs of State is projected to be $1.55 billion or 75% higher than the revised FY86 estimate. The larger part of the increase is due to the provision of $1.26 billion for the purchase of Government land no longer required by the Urban Redevelopment Authority and the Jurong Town Corporation.

A provision of $3.39 billion is budgeted for capital grants to Statutory Boards and other institutions. Almost a third of this is for the MRT system. A sum of $228 million is earmarked for the expansion of facilities at vocational, industrial training and tertiary educational institutions. Capital assistance by the EDB to industries and the

services sector will be stepped up substantially. Such assistance is expected to double to about $200 million. The provision for capital grants includes an allocation of $1.67 billion to finance the losses incurred by HDB on sales of flats and other capital-related expenditure.

Of the total provision of $5.71 billion for loans, $4.6 billion or 81% is for the HDB and the balance is to meet the requirements of the EDB, Temasek Holdings and other public enterprises. Some $1.9 billion of the provision for loans to the HDB is for the purchase of state land required for public housing and the balance to finance construction activities. The EDB's industrial loan scheme is allocated a sum of $600 million, a very substantial rise over last year.

## SECTION III - REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

SECTION III - REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

In the last Budget, I said that we would monitor how Government charges would impact on our international competitiveness. I also assured Members that we would not burden the private sector with unnecessary statutory costs. To this end, we have cut taxes on public utilities and personal income taxes. The property tax rebate was deepened in July last year and various new tax concessions were introduced. These tax cuts have helped our companies regain their international competitiveness and have stimulated the economy. They are also consistent with our long term objective to move towards a lower corporate and income tax regime, in which enterprise and the factors of production are taxed as lightly as possible. But they have also reduced the Government revenue base, which will be further eroded when the corporate tax cuts come into effect this year.

I shall now touch on the Government revenue position. With existing tax rates, the FY 87 tax revenue is estimated at $4.56 billion, $293 million less than in FY 86 and much lower than the $7.56 billion collected in FY 84. Consolidated Revenue for FY 87,

however, is estimated at $9.06 billion, an increase of $1.27 billion over FY 86 and slightly lower than the figure of $9.81 billion for FY 84. However, the increase is almost entirely due to a transfer of $1.50 billion from the statutory boards to the Consolidated Fund. I will elaborate on this later. Excluding this amount, there will be a drop in the Consolidated Revenue receipts.

Taking into account both expenditure and revenue estimates for FY 87, Government's overall financial position is expected to be in deficit by $3.75 billion. This deficit will be financed through domestic borrowings or a drawdown on reserves.

The revenue estimates show that tax revenue has declined sharply since 1985, and there is no room for further direct tax cuts without it being made up from other sources. The policy of this Government has always been to ensure that revenue is adequate to finance expenditure. This is important as structural deficits cannot be sustained in the long term. Greater prudency is therefore necessary in all areas of Government expenditure. The decision to trim manpower in the public sector by 10% by 1990 is one move in this direction. Equally important, we must ensure that all Government programmes be self-financing as far as possible, with minimal subsidies. This will not only keep Government expenditure low but it will also encourage more efficient use of resources and reduce waste. Furthermore, we will then avoid the problem faced in many countries, of insatiable demand for state produced goods and services that are heavily subsidized. Of course, Government will make sure that while those who can afford will pay for the services, the less fortunate and the destitute will be looked after.

## Selective Goods and Services Tax

Selective Goods and Services Tax

Members of the House will recall that last year, I said that the Government was seriously considering the introduction of a broad based consumption tax. I also indicated then that the machinery needed for

the collection of consumption taxes would have to be put in place. An early start is necessary to evaluate alternatives and to install the administrative machinery.

A broad based consumption tax is a good compensatory source of revenue. However, I would like to reiterate that a broad based consumption tax will only be introduced if the revenue shortfall is substantial and a permanent deficit inevitable. The corporate tax rate at 33 per cent which comes into effect this year, is very competitive vis-a-vis the majority of the NICs and the OECD countries, and I do not envisage that we would need to reduce it further at the present time. This is because competitive tax cutting beyond a certain level, if practised by all countries, would ultimately be ineffective in achieving its aim. Also, whilst tax rates undoubtedly matter, competitiveness should, in general, be achieved by improving the pre-tax rate of return. That is to say, by reducing operating costs. The Government will take the necessary measures to ensure that such costs are kept low.

Consumption taxes are not something new. A number of such taxes already exist. They include entertainment duties, duties on liquor and tobacco, tax on public utilities and telephone bills, etc. As a start, Government will consider extending the list of such consumption taxes on a selective basis to meet any future shortfall in revenue. A Consumption Tax Division will be set up under the Inland Revenue Department to look into the collection of such taxes. The Division will assist my Ministry in deciding on the items to be included in future under this selective basis.

Whilst the Government has decided to adopt this item by item approach in preference to a comprehensive consumption tax at this point in time, the public must be prepared for such an eventuality when we are faced with a permanent budget deficit. In such a case a comprehensive consumption tax would be inevitable. In the final analysis, the need for a comprehensive consumption tax must be seen in the overall context of Singapore's economic imperatives.

TAXATION

I now turn to tax matters.

TAX ON COMPANIES

## Corporate Income Tax

Corporate Income Tax

As I have mentioned earlier on in my speech, during the last year or so, Government has given a number of new concessions to ensure that we remain competitive. Time is needed for these measures to work. Therefore, I do not propose to introduce major changes to the corporate income tax, except to improve on the incentive package aimed at promoting Singapore as a financial and services centre.

## Withholding Tax on Margin Deposits in Financial Futures and Loco-London Gold Trading

Withholding Tax on Margin Deposits in Financial Futures and Loco-London Gold Trading

Members will recall that in the 1984 Budget, tax concessions were granted to the Singapore International Monetary Exchange (SIMEX) and its members. SIMEX has grown and earned itself a rightful place in Singapore's financial scene. Within two and a half years of its formation, SIMEX has established itself as a formidable financial futures exchange in the Asia-Pacific time zone. The daily average volume recorded in the first two months of this year was well over 5,000 lots, an increase of at least 200% over the daily average volume of about 1,600 lots in 1984.

As at end February, SIMEX has a total of 30 Clearing members, 40 Non-Clearing members and 228 Individual members. Currently, SIMEX list 7 futures contracts. Plans are underway to list additional contracts including options based on the existing contracts.

To further encourage the growth of gold and financial futures trading in Singapore and increase SIMEX members' international competitiveness, I am pleased to announce that with effect from Year of Assessment 1988, interest paid by SIMEX members on margin deposits for transactions in gold and financial futures shall be exempt from withholding tax.

Also, since Singapore is an important physical gold trading centre and has an active gold and deferred gold market, the latter being commonly known as Loco-London gold, I have decided to exempt interest paid by SIMEX members to non-residents in respect of transactions in Loco-London gold from withholding tax. This will make Singapore a more attractive place to carry out such transactions.

## Extension of 10% ACU Tax to Securities Trading

Extension of 10% ACU Tax to Securities Trading

The global trend in the financial market-place towards securitisation is likely to continue unabated. International securities trading, which has gained importance in major financial centres, will expand geographically and 24-hour trading in such international securities will soon be a reality. If Singapore is to continue to be a financial centre of consequence, we will have to tap into this activity and establish ourselves as a centre for the trading of international securities in the Asian time zone.

In order to further accelerate the development of our capital market and fund management activities, I have decided that with effect from Year of Assessment 1988, the following income earned by the Asian Currency Units (ACUs) and securities companies approved by the MAS would be taxed at a concessionary rate of 10%:

(a) commission and fee income from transacting in non-Singapore dollar securities on behalf of non-residents (presently such income is already exempted for ACUs); and

(b) income derived from trading in non-Singapore dollar securities with non-residents, other ACUs and other approved securities firms.

## Tax Incentives for Promotion of Offshore Services

Tax Incentives for Promotion of Offshore Services

The promotion of offshore activities has been identified as one of our key growth strategies. The slowdown in international merchandise trade as a result of protec-

tionistic pressures are likely to continue. Indications are that it will be counterbalanced by increased trade in services. World service trade has, in recent years, been growing twice as fast as merchandise trade and the trend is likely to continue.

In order to encourage such offshore activities, I propose to extend the Export Incentive under the Economic Expansion Incentives Act, presently applicable only to manufacturing activities, to cover export of selected services. This will include, amongst others, consultancy, management, construction, technical and engineering services.

The incentive will be extended to qualifying services undertaken with respect to offshore projects. Under the Scheme, 90% of the qualifying export income would be exempt from tax. Provision will be made for an export base to be set where export income below the base would be subject to full corporate tax. The incentive will be for an initial period of five years but can be extended. The incentive will take effect from Year of Assessment 1988.

TAX ON INDIVIDUALS

## Personal Income Tax

Personal Income Tax

In line with the new corporate tax rates, a new schedule of reduced personal tax rates was announced last year, to come into effect from Year of Assessment 1987. No further adjustments are envisaged at this time.

## CPF Minimum Sum Topping-Up Scheme

CPF Minimum Sum Topping-Up Scheme

Members of the House will recall the debate on 27 January 1987 on the Amendment of the CPF Act moved by the Labour Minister to provide for the CPF Minimum Sum Scheme. Some Members have suggested granting tax relief to children who use cash to top up the Minimum Sum Accounts of their parents.

I am pleased to announce that Government has decided to grant tax relief for such contributions with effect from 1st April 1987.

The amount eligible for tax relief will be the difference between $30,000 and the

parents' CPF balance before withdrawal at the age of 55 years. In the case of children topping up the Minimum Sum Accounts of both parents, the amount eligible for tax relief will be the difference between $45,000 and the parents' combined CPF balance before withdrawal at the age of 55 years. The relief will be subjected to a maximum of $6,000 per year.

In his Second Reading on the amendment of the CPF Act, the Labour Minister has informed the House that the Minimum Sum Scheme will not be confined to CPF members only. As the scheme is also open to those who have no CPF Accounts, the tax relief will be similarly granted for cash contributions made towards the opening and topping-up of the Minimum Sum Account. This underscores the Government's efforts to encourage the self employed to provide for their old age needs.

## Tax Incentives to Encourage Procreation

Tax Incentives to Encourage Procreation

Mr Speaker, Sir, the First Deputy Prime Minister has already made an announcement of the Government's population philosophy and what the supporting measures are. He has mentioned that Government will allow, amongst other things, the delivery and hospitalization expenses for the fourth order births to be offset against the parents' earned income when the new accouchement fee structure takes effect from 1 Jan 1988.

To encourage more new births and to help reduce the burden of child-bearing and upbringing of the children, the following tax incentives will be granted with effect from Year of Assessment 1988.

In the case of Normal Child Relief, the quantum of relief for the third child will be raised to $750 in line with the reliefs granted for the first and second child. This will be applicable to taxpayers who are presently claiming Normal Child Relief in respect of their third child as well as for taxpayers who would become eligible because of new births.

In addition, the eligibility for the Enhanced Child Relief will be lowered from 5 GCE '0' level passes to 3 GCE 'O' level passes or equivalent taken in one sitting. The Enhanced Child Relief will also

be extended to the new born fourth child. The amount of relief for this fourth qualifying child will be $750 plus 15% of the working woman's earned income subject to a maximum of $10,000.

I have also decided to introduce a Special Tax Rebate. A tax rebate of $20,000, which can be used to offset against either or both the husband's and wife's income tax liabilities, will be granted for the new born third child. An additional rebate equivalent to 15% of the wife's earned income, where the wife is working, will also be granted. However, this additional rebate can be offset only against the wife's income tax liabilities. The excess of both rebates will be allowed to be carried forward for a maximum of four years. In other words, the total rebate granted must be absorbed within a period of five years.

OTHER TAX CHANGES

## Duty on Bets

Duty on Bets

The present duty on bets is 20% on the amount of bets made on any totalisator or pari mutuel promoted by any racing club or association. It was last revised on 1st April 1984. While Government does not encourage gambling, it recognizes it as a practice which cannot be totally eradicated. What Government can do therefore is to ensure that the profits from gambling are not reaped by a few private individuals but channelled for the benefits of the society. I have therefore decided to increase the duty on bets to 25% with effect from 1st April 1987. The additional revenue yield is estimated at $43 million.

## Duties on Cigarettes and Tobacco

Duties on Cigarettes and Tobacco

Duties on cigarettes and tobacco were last increased in March 1984 to discourage smoking. The increase had helped to retard the growth of smoking among the population. In 1985, the consumption of cigarettes and tobacco dropped by 4.3% compared to 1984, but the rate of decline had slowed down to only 1.6% in 1986.

The National Smoking Control Programme has got off to a good start in educating the public to stop smoking. In support of the effort to turn Singapore into

a nation of non-smokers, I propose to raise both the import and excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco by $10 per kilogram - from the present $60 per kilogram to $70 per kilogram. With your permission, Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to table Appendix 1 (Cols. 115 - 116) which sets out the changes.

Appendix 1 - DUTIES ON CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO (Cols. 115 - 116)

The increase in duties will take effect from today and the yield in revenue is estimated at $26.3 million.

## Duties on Liquors

Duties on Liquors

Duties on liquors, together with duties on cigarettes and tobacco, are traditionally a good source of revenue for Government. Revision in these duties is usually prompted as much by the need to raise revenue as by the need to achieve certain necessary and desirable social objectives. In the same manner as I have decided to increase the duties on cigarettes and tobacco, there will also be a general increase in the duties on liquors.

With effect from today, the import and excise duties on hard liquors in bottles will be increased by $60, - from $210 per decalitre to $270 per decalitre. The import and excise duties on beer and stout will be increased by $3 per decalitre. The import duty on cider and perry will be increased by $8 from $22 per decalitre to $30 per decalitre, while the import duty on sake will be increased by $25 from $130 per proof decalitre to $155 per proof decalitre, bringing it in line with the duty on samsoo. Duties on still wine will be standardized at $85 per decalitre irrespective of the proof strength, while duties on other liquors such as grape must and brandy, whisky, etc in other form will be standardized at $360 per proof decalitre. Details of the increases are set out in Appendix II (Cols. 117 - 122) which has also been tabled.

Appendix II - DUTIES ON LIQUORS (Cols. 117 - 122)

Total revenue yield is estimated at $19.5 million.

## Surpluses of Statutory Boards

Surpluses of Statutory Boards

Members of the House will recall that the Public Accounts Committee had recommended in its 1985 Report that surplus funds of Statutory Boards in excess of their long-term development needs should be returned to Government.

The Ministry of Finance had since reviewed the financial position of the Statutory Boards. It has been decided that while the Statutory Boards would be allowed to retain the surplus funds to finance their future development needs, the accumulation of such funds well in excess of justifiable needs is to be discouraged.

Legislation will be introduced in Parliament to authorize the Minister for Finance to require Statutory Boards to transfer their accumulated liquid reserves to the Consolidated Revenue Account. In FY 87, as I have said earlier, I propose to transfer $1.5 billion from the accumulated reserves of the Statutory Boards to the Consolidated Fund. In addition, with effect from Year of Assessment 1988, Statutory Boards will be required to pay into the Consolidated Fund an amount equivalent to what the Statutory Boards would have paid if their annual operating surpluses had been taxed at the corporate tax rate of 33%.

## Tax on Telephone Services

Tax on Telephone Services

In April 1985, Government suspended the 20% tax on domestic telephone services and trunk call services to West Malaysia indefinitely. I have reviewed the position. The suspension will remain for the time being.

## Tax on Public Utilities

Tax on Public Utilities

The 10% tax on electricity and gas was suspended for two years beginning from 1st November 1985 and would expire on

31st October 1987. I have decided to extend the suspension until 31st March 1988, at which time the position will be reviewed again.

## Foreign Workers Policy and the Levy Scheme

Foreign Workers Policy and the Levy Scheme

Government has also reviewed the foreign workers policy. As recommended by the Economic Committee, the Government has decided to allow a controlled revolving pool of foreign workers on short term work permits to remain even beyond 1992. Recruitment of foreign workers will continue to be allowed in the manufacturing, hotel, construction and domestic service sectors, and they will form the revolving pool.

Government has also decided to extend the Levy Scheme, instead of CPF, eventually to all work permit holders who are not Singapore permanent residents.

Our long term goal is still to reduce our dependence on foreign workers through economic restructuring. The foreign workforce will be controlled and the levy will be the main control mechanism for this purpose. Unskilled foreign workers from non-traditional sources will continue to be allowed only in the construction and shipyard industries and for domestic services.

With effect from 1st April 1987, all new foreign workers who are not Singapore permanent residents will be placed on the Levy Scheme. Neither they nor their employers will have to contribute to CPF. However, existing Malaysian workers who are on the CPF Scheme will remain on this Scheme so long as they continue to work for their current employers.

There will be no change in the levy for the construction workers and foreign maids. The levy for foreign workers in all other sectors will be $140 per month. It will have to be raised if the demand for foreign workers becomes excessive as a result of either strong economic recovery or due to the conversion to the Levy Scheme.

Work permit holders who acquire permanent residence will be placed on the CPF Scheme.

## Conclusion

Conclusion

In conclusion, Mr Speaker, Sir, the past few years have been particularly turbulent for us. We have not been spared from the chill of recession. However, unlike a ship floundering in the high sea without a clear direction, we have taken swift actions to steer our economy out of the rough waters.

There are signs to show that the various fiscal measures taken by Government have yielded positive results. However, as I stated earlier, the recovery is not across the board. There are still hazards along the path to full recovery and they may throw us into disarray again if we are not vigilant.

Therefore, we must not relent in our efforts to ensure a sustained recovery. The Government has made fundamental changes to its economic policies in general and fiscal policies in particular. It is necessary to give the economy time for the changes to be fully effective. I will regard this year, therefore, as a year of consolidation.

We have the necessary conditions to enable us to overcome the current recession. Our infrastructure is first rate and our financial resources more than adequate. More important, we have a pragmatic and hardworking people and a healthy industrial environment. When faced with a crisis, the Government has not flinched from taking unpopular but necessary decisions to ensure the long term survival of the nation. Our people are willing to upgrade themselves and to adapt to changes. I am, therefore, confident that for as long as we continue to work together as a cohesive people, we will surmount the recession and be in a stronger and better position to see us through the 1990s and beyond.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move. [Applause].

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1987 to 31st March, 1988." In

accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 84, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed, what day?

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Friday, 13th March, 1987.

Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Friday, 13th March, 1987." - [Mr Wong Kan Seng].

Adjourned accordingly at Two minutes to Five o'clock pm to Friday, 13th March, 1987.
