# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1989-03-03
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker);

---

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

3.41 pm

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move

"That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the Financial Year 1st April 1989 to 31st March 1990".

## SECTION I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

SECTION I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

## ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1988

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1988

In my last Budget speech, I announced a recovery across all sectors of the economy, with the exception of construction. Overall in 1987, we registered a better-than-expected growth rate of 8.8%.

However, I was more cautious in my outlook for 1988. The world was then lingering in the sombre shadow of the worst stock market crash since the Great Depression. The US index of leading indicators which had been shown to precede

activity in our own manufacturing sector, was then on a downward trend. Even our surveys of general business expectations in the manufacturing and services sectors reflected a possible slow-down in 1988. As it turned out, however, expectations of a post-crash recession dissipated as the US economy continued on its longest post-war expansion into the sixth consecutive year. Even the major OECD and regional economies continued to perform well.

Today, I am glad to note that the broad based expansion of the Singapore economy had continued into 1988. Overall, the economy grew at a stronger pace of 11% in 1988, the highest annual growth in this decade. Most major sectors did better in 1988 compared with 1987. Construction continued to decline by 5%.

As in 1987, strong external demand was the main impetus of growth, contributing 90% of the growth in total demand. Total exports of goods and services rose by 29%, compared to 11 per cent in 1987. Non-oil domestic exports and total re-exports grew by 41% and 35% respectively. Our strong international competitiveness, particularly in manufacturing, enabled us to benefit from the buoyant OECD and regional economies which are our key export markets. Domestic demand also expanded by 7%. This was due to the strong 13% growth in private consumption expenditure and the 27% increase in private fixed capital formation.

Our competitiveness, EDB's promotional efforts, and favourable external developments such as the strong Yen, boosted foreign investments. Manufacturing investment commitments totalled a record $2 billion in 1988.

As a result of the strong economic growth, 65,900 jobs were created in 1988, mostly in the manufacturing sector, compared with 66,000 jobs in 1987. But many of the jobs in manufacturing went to foreign workers. It was the increase in foreign employment that enabled us to exceed the long term growth rate of 4 to 6%. The contribution to overall growth from productivity was 4.4% while local labour contributed 3.8%. Foreign labour contributed the remaining 2.8%.

However, the strong inflow of foreign workers carries a high social and political cost, especially in the longer term. To prevent excessive dependence on foreign workers, policy changes, including increases in the foreign worker levy, were announced in November.

## MANAGING SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH

MANAGING SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH

The state of the economy today is totally different from what it was when the Government implemented various cost cutting measures in 1986 to help bring the economy out of the recession. The expansion in 1984 was largely fueled by the boom in the construction sector which accounted for only 10% of the economy, but contributed one-third of GDP growth. This was unsustainable. Growth is now more broad based with manufacturing and services providing the twin engines of growth.

Our challenge now is to sustain the economy on a path of steady, balanced and sustainable growth. To do so we cannot artificially depress costs as that would distort the price mechanism and result in misallocation of resources. At the same time, we need to be vigilant over our competitiveness. We must not push the economy into a recession as a result of loss of competitiveness. For an open economy like Singapore, competitiveness is vital. Barring a world wide recession, we will continue to grow if we remain competitive.

## PUBLIC SECTOR RATES AND CHARGES

PUBLIC SECTOR RATES AND CHARGES

With these principles in mind, we have tailored our policies to fit our economic recovery. Last year, the uncertainties of the stock market crash prompted the Government to move cautiously in adjusting the concessions granted on Government rates and statutory charges in 1985 and 1986. Fortunately, a world recession did not materialize. Our economy recovered and enjoyed above average growth. We cannot sustain a growth rate of over 10% in the long term. The Government has made the necessary policy

adjustments. We will continue to act circumspectly, and give full consideration to the effect of new policies on our international competitiveness.

## Long-term CPF Rate Adjustment

Long-term CPF Rate Adjustment

We have increased CPF contributions incrementally towards the long term contribution rate of 40%. We have also announced that the employer's CPF contribution rate will be raised by up to 4% and the employee's contribution rate reduced by up to 2% in 1989, subject to the economic performance of the first quarter of 1989. By giving early notice of the adjustment, the Government hopes that both employers and employees would take the higher CPF rates into account when negotiating their wage settlements.

## Foreign Worker Levy

Foreign Worker Levy

The robust growth last year and the tight labour market saw a strong inflow of foreign workers. In manufacturing, more jobs went to foreign workers than to locals. To dampen the demand for foreign workers and to prevent them from growing beyond what is necessary to maintain a buffer, the foreign worker levy was increased to $220 with effect from 1st January 1989, and to $250 per month with effect from 1st July 1989. The maximum dependency ratio for foreign workers has also been reduced from 50% to 40%.

## Skills Development Fund

Skills Development Fund

With the shift in Skills Development Fund focus to worker training since May 1987, there has been a marked increase in the training of rank-and-file workers. SDF will continue to invest in worker training so that we will be able to keep up with the rapidly changing skill requirements to meet technological changes. Based on current SDF levy collections, there are sufficient funds to meet projected SDF disbursements this year. Therefore, it will not be necessary to increase the SDF contributions in 1989.

## OUTLOOK FOR 1989

OUTLOOK FOR 1989

Overall growth in 1988 would have been higher if the manufacturing sector had not slowed down to 9% in the fourth quarter,

from about 20% in the first three quarters. The slow-down was confined to the manufacturing sector, due mainly to external demand factors such as the world wide over-capacity in the disk drive industry and lower demand in the petroleum industry.

The latest, first quarter 1989 survey of business expectations, suggests that the slow-down in manufacturing will continue into the first half of 1989. Respondents to the survey from the services sector were also less optimistic about business prospects in the first half of 1989 than in the last survey.

We believe that the growth in 1989 will be slower than in 1988. Due to resource constraints, our long term growth rate is still expected to be between 4% to 6%. Moreover, the general consensus is that while a world recession is unlikely in 1989, world economic growth will be slower. The policy adjustments announced in November 1988 on CPF and foreign workers were made on the basis of slower growth.

Our estimated growth for 1989 is between 6% and 7%, closer to our long term growth rate of 4 to 6%, and also to what the other NICs expect for 1989; South Korea, 8.5%, Taiwan, 7% and Hong Kong, 6%.

## SECTION II - THE FY89 BUDGET

SECTION II - THE FY89 BUDGET

I shall now move on to the Budget for the coming financial year.

## BUDGET POLICY OBJECTIVES

BUDGET POLICY OBJECTIVES

In formulating the annual budget, we have been guided by three basic objectives. First, the need to maintain an overall balanced budget over the long term. Second, to continue investing for the future. Third, to foster growth of the private sector.

In order to meet these policy objectives, we must ensure that the share of national resources taken up by the public sector is contained and gradually reduced in favour of the private sector. Growth in the recurrent expenditures of Ministries and statu-

tory boards will have to be kept to a minimum and this means that the quality and efficiency of public services will have to be maintained through higher productivity and better use of existing resources. Development expenditures for building up our economic and social infrastructure will continue to be supported and this will require continued investment in physical infrastructure, education and manpower training.

## THE FY89 BUDGET ESTIMATES

THE FY89 BUDGET ESTIMATES

The FY89 Budget reflects the good progress made in achieving our long-term policy objectives. An overall budget surplus is projected. Capital investment levels will be maintained and more funds channelled towards education and manpower training. Government expenditure as a proportion of Gross domestic product and the manpower establishment as a proportion of the total workforce will be reduced, but without any sacrifice in the quality of public administration.

Total Government spending is projected to rise from $11.81 billion in FY88 to $12.63 billion in FY89, a 7% cent increase. As a proportion of GDP, total expenditure would drop from 24.4% to 24.1%. Of the projected outlay of $12.63 billion for FY89, recurrent expenditure accounts for $8.31 billion or 66% and development outlays for $4.32 billion or 34%.

Recurrent expenditure is projected to increase by 835 million or 11%, marginally lower than the 13% average growth over the FY83-87 period. About 31% of the increase is due to Defence requirements. Recurrent expenditure of the other ministries will go up by $328 million or more than 9% to reach $3.73 billion. Of this, $l.85 billion or 50% is for Expenditure on Manpower, $0.80 billion or 22% for Other Operating Expenditure and $1.07 billion or 28% for Grants-in-Aid to statutory boards and other institutions.

Expenditure on Manpower is projected to rise by $29 millon or 1.6%. The relatively low increase is due to the reduction in manpower costs of the Ministry of Health following the restructuring of the Singapore General Hospital. Excluding the Ministry of Health, the manpower costs of

the other ministries would go up by $88 million or 5.9%. The increase is due to filling of essential vacancies, normal salary increments for existing staff, and contingency provisions for possible variable bonus payments and an increase in the employers' CPF contribution rate.

The total authorized manning level of ministries and government-funded statutory boards will be reduced by more than 2,720 posts or 2.4%. The reductions are due to the deletion of long-standing vacancies and implementation of mechanisation, automation and computerization schemes, organizational reviews and changes in work procedures. The majority of ministries will be able to maintain zero-growth in their actual staffing level. The total manpower estblish-ment for FY89 would be slightly more than 111,700 posts, some 3,000 posts or nearly 3% higher than the long-term zero-growth target of 108,700 posts. While there are establishment decreases in most ministries, staff increases are supported for critical areas such as schools, junior colleges and the courts where there are clear shortages and redeployment from other areas is not possible.

Other Operating Expenditure is projected to rise by $113 million or 16%. The increase is due to expansion and upgrading in the education sector, strengthening of civil defence capability, and the expansion of public sector R&D programmes.

Grants-in-Aid to statutory boards and other institutions will go up by $186 million or 21%. A significant part of the increase is to meet the deficit incurred by Singapore General Hospital (Pte) Ltd on subsidized patients. The balance is largely to meet the higher operating deficits of the tertiary and technical training institutions whose enrolment will increase and also due to a new provision for operating subsidies to town councils.

Expenditure on pensions is expected to rise by $22 million or 9.3% to $264 million because of the larger number of retirees. Debt servicing costs are project to rise by $225 million or 16%. The increase is mainly to meet interest payments on new domestic loans.

Development expenditure is projected to be about $4.32 billion in FY89 - almost the same level as in FY88. The projected outlay of $4.32 billion includes a contingency amount of $336 million for new development projects that are likely to be approved and implemented in the course of FY89. A further contingency amount of $100 million has been set aside for R&D projects of ministries and statutory boards. The long-term plan is to increase Government outlays, recurrent as well as capital, on R&D to about 1% of GDP. Excluding the contingency amounts for new projects and R&D, development expenditure by ministries would drop because of the completion or near-completion of major development projects such as the MRT, roads and expressways, and the reduced scale of public housing construction.

The share of total Government expenditure and of GDP taken up by capital investment has been declining in recent years. From 38% of total expenditure in FY87, development expenditure is expected to fall to 37% in FY88 and to 34% in FY89. As a proportion of GDP, the drop is more significant. The development expenditure to GDP ratio in FY89 would be about 8.2% as compared to 12.6% in FY87. The decline is of some concern as the private sector might not be able in the short term to make up for the reduction. My Ministry is, therefore, giving priority to bringing forward the implementation of major new development projects of ministries and statutory boards to make up for any investment shortfalls.

Of the projected total outlay of $12.63 billion in FY89, statutory commitments such as pensions and debt servicing costs take up about $l.9 billion or 3.6% of GDP. The relative shares of GDP taken up by the various ministries will not change very much in FY89. A significant exception would be the Ministry of Education whose share will increase from 3.5% to 3.8%. This reflects the high priority Government places on investment in education and training to provide the skilled manpower needed for a growing and increasingly sophisticated economy. The Ministry of Trade and Industry's share of GDP is also expected to increase substantially, from

0.5% to 0.9%, because of stepping up of industrial promotion and assistance activities.

Our aim is to ensure that total Government expenditure does not grow as a percentage of GDP. In particular, the share of GDP taken up by recurrent expenditure must be trimmed, but at the same time high standards of public services maintained. Ministries will have to ensure that there is no let-up in efforts to improve productivity. Redundant activities and red tape must be eliminated. There must be better use of manpower and more extensive computerization and mechanization. Where it is cost-effective, services should be contracted out or privatized. The Management Services Department (MSD) of my Ministry will help other ministries improve their productivity and cost-effectiveness. MSD will be expanded and will assist ministries set up in-house management services units to review and improve systems, procedures and regulations.

The new block vote budget allocation and control system which has been introduced recently will enable ministries to better manage their resources. The new system provides considerable flexibility to ministries in using funds and deploying manpower to achieve their targets. Regular performance monitoring is a key aspect of the new budget control procedures. Members will notice that the format of the budget document presented to this House has been modified to include workload and performance indicators of major programmes of the ministries. The additional information should, I believe, help Members when they discuss the budget requirements of ministries in the Committee of Supply.

## CIVIL SERVICE MANPOWER

CIVIL SERVICE MANPOWER

For the Government to implement national programmes properly, the Civil Service and Statutory Boards must have dedicated and able officers at all echelons. Top civil servants carry heavier responsibilities than any private sector executives.

They must be of equal calibre, if not more capable than top bankers, lawyers or industrialists. A fair share of the most talented university graduates must join the Civil Service each year.

The actual Civil Service manpower trends in recent years, however, cause grave concern. With high economic growth, private sector incomes have risen rapidly, but the Civil Service has not kept up. The Administrative Service and some of the Professional Services have found it particularly difficult to recruit enough fresh talent into the service. Many promising young officers have left for the private sector. This problem is not new, but it has grown acute since the last pay revision exercise in 1982.

A Committee on Civil Service Careers and Scholarships, chaired by the Minister for Trade and Industry, has been studying these issues since November 1988. The Committee has proposed that, as a fundamental principle, the public sector should match its salaries and promotion rates to the practice in the private sector as closely as possible. The Civil Service can and should offer able young men and women joining it careers no less challenging and rewarding than the private sector.

There is no reason why the Government should not pay civil servants the market rate for their abilities and their responsibilities. It can afford to, and doing so is only being fair to the officers concerned. Although salary is not the only factor influencing the career choices of young graduates, it is clearly a major factor. Able young people opting for public sector careers should not have to make large financial sacrifices. If they do most will simply not join, and those who are already in service will leave.

The Committee has therefore recommended substantial salary revisions for the key services, particularly the Administrative Service and to a lesser degree the Professional Services. The Government has accepted these recommendations. The Minister for Trade and Industry will announce the details in a statement to the House during the Budget session.

## SECTION III - REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

SECTION III - REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

I now turn to Government's revenue position.

Tax revenue for FY89 is projected to increase by 14% to $7.9 billion over the revised FY88 collection of $6.9 billion. The increase is due to the better than expected performance of the economy in 1988. Consolidated revenue for FY89 is also expected to rise to $10.3 billion, an increase of 5% over the revised FY88 estimate.

Taking into account the budgeted expenditure for FY89, an overall surplus of $639 million is expected. This happy position is the outcome of a buoyant revenue position and prudent expenditure policies pursued over the past years.

Although our fiscal policy is to achieve a balanced budget each year, this should not preclude us from generating budget surpluses in good years. 1988 was a good year which saw the economy recover fully from the recession of 1986. We expect that 1989 will see the beginning of a new phase in our economic development as we move into a period of more moderate growth, representative of a more mature economy. Even at these lower rates of growth, Government intends that sufficient revenue from taxation and other sources be collected to cover recurrent and development expenditures in future years without the need to draw down on our reserves.

Direct taxation will remain a major source of Government revenue. However, high taxes do not necessarily mean more revenue because beyond a certain level, they stifle initiative and effort and drive businesses to more hospitable shores. Countries around the world have come to recognise this and have lowered direct taxes to create an attractive fiscal environment for investment and effort.

This year, there is some scope for sharing the gains of a buoyant economy with the private sector. However, I would point out that our corporate tax rates are still competitive and the economy is not in need of a stimulus, so that any adjustment will be modest and largely aimed at off-

setting some of the cost increases that the corporate sector has had to absorb in the past year. It will also be in line with Government's philosophy of taxing the factors of production as lightly as possible.

Domestic demand remains strong and increased consumer spending may exert upward pressure on prices and demand for services, thereby aggravating an already tight labour supply situation. There is therefore no immediate need to adjust personal tax rates, which are already low compared to most other countries. Instead I propose to augment certain income tax reliefs designed to support Government's policy of encouraging family formation and procreation and to ease the cost of home ownership.

In previous Budgets, I have mentioned that in the longer term, we will need to introduce some form of comprehensive indirect tax on consumption to complement our system of direct tax on income. Such a broadly based consumption tax will provide a stable source of revenue which is less sensitive to economic fluctuations. The revenue from it will become necessary if we had to reduce direct taxes to remain internationally competitive, or if the Government has to increase its expenditures substantially, for example on health or social services.

In determining what sort of comprehensive consumption tax will best suit Singapore, whether a Value Added Tax or a general sales tax, we will need to consider its effects on all income groups, and on our exports and tourist trade.

So far, such a consumption tax has not proved necessary because economic growth has been strong, tax revenue has been buoyant, and expenditures have been kept well under control. However, as future growth is likely to be lower, and competition for investments and markets is bound to intensify, I believe we should begin now to put into place a framework of indirect taxes. The Government does not expect to draw large sums from them for many years but if and when larger revenues are needed, the system will already be well established. I am proposing to take the first step in this direction this year, by partially restoring certain

consumption taxes, such as the taxes on Public Ulitities Board and Telecoms bills, which were suspended during the 1985 recession. We will also actively examine the scope for introducing other forms of selective consumption taxes.

With this note, I will now turn to the tax changes proposed for FY89.

## TAXATION

TAXATION

## Corporate Income Tax

Corporate Income Tax

I propose to reduce the corporate tax rate from 33% to 32%. This is a modest reduction, but is indicative of the direction in which corporate taxation will move if economic conditions allow. It will also ensure that our corporate tax structure remains one of the most competitive in the world. The 32% tax rate will take effect from Year of Assessment 1990. As a corollary to the reduction, any dividends paid on or after 1st January 1989 would carry a credit of 32%. The revenue loss is expected to be $55 million a year.

I now move on to other corporate tax changes.

## Withholding Tax Exemption on Swap Transactions

Withholding Tax Exemption on Swap Transactions

As financial markets become more internationalized, corporate borrowers have access to various innovative financial instruments and arrangements to reduce their borrowing costs and exposure to fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. One such financial arrangement is swaps. These transactions have gained importance in major financial centres such as London and New York. In order to enable banks in Singapore to be competitive in providing financial packages to their international customers, I have decided to exempt such transactions from withholding tax provided:-

a) the transactions are carried out between Asian Currency Units and non-residents; and

b) the transactions do not involve the Singapore dollar.

I hope that with this concession, banks in Singapore would be able to offer their clients such facilities at competitive rates. This measure is part of the Government's efforts to further develop our capital market. It will take effect from 1st April 1989.

## Extension of One Year Accelerated Depreciation to Other Automation Equipment

Extension of One Year Accelerated Depreciation to Other Automation Equipment

The 1982 Budget Statement provided for the one year accelerated depreciation allowance to be given to capital expenditure incurred on the purchase of robots and other types of automated equipment. This has so far only been extended to robots, CAD/CAM and certain other office equipment. In line with our current automation thrust, as well as to take into account technological advances made in the area of automation equipment, I have decided to extend the one year accelerated depreciation allowance under section 19(A)(1A) of the Income Tax Act to a number of other automation equipment. These include the following:

- Automated Machining Equipment

- Automated Guided Vehicles

- Automatic Testing/Inspection Equipment

- Automatic Retrieval and Insertion Devices The concession will apply to all capital expenditure incurred on qualifying equipment during or after the basis period for the Year of Assessment 1990.

## Tax deduction for computer equipment donations to approved educational and research institutions

Tax deduction for computer equipment donations to approved educational and research institutions

To help upgrade and maintain the quality of training in Information Technology, I propose to allow deduction for the donations of computer equipment by companies to approved educational and research institutions with effect from Year of Assessment 1990. This scheme will be administered by my Ministry.

## Tax Incentives for Building Modifications for the Disabled

Tax Incentives for Building Modifications for the Disabled

To facilitate the employment of our disabled, I would like to encourage

employers to make modifications to their working environment so as to accommodate disabled workers.

In this respect, I am prepared to consider allowing a once-off deduction against income for expenditure incurred in building modifications to cater for the disabled. In order to minimize abuse, such deductions would, however, be subject to a maximum of $100,000. This incentive would take effect in respect of modifications undertaken from 1st January 1989.

## INDIVIDUAL INCOME TAX

INDIVIDUAL INCOME TAX

I move on to individual income tax. As the corporate tax rate has only been lowered by 1%, I do not propose to make any changes to the rates of personal tax as they are already low compared to many other countries. We have a graduated tax scale which starts at 3.5% at the lower end and rises steeply before levelling off at a maximum rate of 33%. This, combined with a scheme of tax allowances, ensures that the better off carries a fair share of the tax burden, whilst adequately rewarding effort and enterprise. In this connection, Members may wish to note that under our system of personal taxes, less than 10% of taxpayers (accounting for some 6.5% of economically active persons in Singapore) pay nearly three quarters of the total personal taxes collected.

Instead of adjusting personal tax rates, I propose to revise a number of reliefs in support of family formation and Government's call to families to care for their aged and handicapped dependants.

The following reliefs will be revised with effect from Year of Assessment 1990.

(a) Relief for handicapped dependants who are either siblings or children of the taxpayer will be raised from $750 to $2,500. This relief will be allowed so long as the handicapped dependant does not have an income of more than $1,500 in the year.

(b) Aged parent relief will be raised from $1,000 to $2,500.

(c) Wife relief will be raised from $1,000 to $1,500.

(d) Normal Child Relief for the first, second and third child will be raised from $750 to $1,500 each.

(e) Enhanced Child Relief for the second, third and fourth child below 12 years of age will be raised from the present 10%, 15% and 15% of the mother's earned income to 15%, 20% and 25% respectively. The maximum claim for the Enhanced Child Relief for each child below 12 years old shall also be raised from $10,000 to $15,000.

I hope that these increased reliefs will go some way to alleviate the financial burden of families with children, aged or handicapped dependants. The revised reliefs will result in an expected revenue loss of $50 million a year.

## Procreation Incentives

Procreation Incentives

I announced in my 1987 Budget Speech the Special Tax Rebate of $20,000 for newborn third child. To further encourage new births, the Government has decided to introduce a similar Special Tax Rebate of $20,000 for the newborn fourth child born on or after 1st January 1988. In other words, a tax free period of up to five years can be claimed by either the husband or wife, subject to a maximum rebate of $20,000 against their total tax liabilities over the period. This rebate will be available from Year of Assessment 1989. This will remove the anomaly that a woman gets Enhanced Child Relief for the fourth child but not Special Tax Rebate. An additional rebate equivalent to 15% of the wife's earned income will also be granted for the birth of the fourth child in lieu of maternity leave. However, this additional rebate can be offset only against the wife's income tax liabilities and must be absorbed within a period of five years. Normal Child Relief of $1,500 will also be given to the fourth child born on or after 1st January 1988.

## Tax deduction for contributions to CPF and other approved pension and provident funds

Tax deduction for contributions to CPF and other approved pension and provident funds

Obligatory contributions by individuals to the CPF and other approved pension and provident funds are at present fully tax deductible. To prevent the use of these funds as tax shelters, I have decided that the following changes shall take effect from Year of Assessment 1990.

The deduction for an individual's contribution to approved funds, including the CPF, shall not exceed the statutory contributions under the CPF Act. In the case of additional wages, which include bonuses and commissions, deduction will be limited to the statutory CPF contribution from additional wages not exceeding 40% of the annual odinary wages.

I also propose that where an employer's contributions to the approved funds and CPF are in excess of the statutory requirements under the CPF Act, or are based on additional wages in excess of 40% of the employee's annual ordinary wages, the employee should be assessed to tax on the excess.

## PROPERTY TAX

PROPERTY TAX

Three major property tax concessions which were announced during my Budget Speech of 7th March 1986 have already been adopted as permanent structural adjustments to our property tax system. These are the exemption from property tax for lands under private development; the property tax assessment on hotels at 15% of gross receipts for rooms and 5% for food and beverage outlets; and the payment scheme of property tax by monthly instalments through GIRO.

The 50% rebate on property tax is due to expire on 30th June this year. This rebate scheme, as Members of the House would recall, has been part of an incentive package introduced by Government as far back as 1st July 1985. I have decided to extend the rebate scheme for another year until 30th June 1990. However from 1st July next year, the property tax rate of 23% will be reduced to 16% of annual value across the board. I would like to reassure Members that the Government will continue to monitor closely our property tax system to ensure that it remains competitive.

Also, from 1st July 1990, a concessionary property tax rate of 4% of annual value will be levied on all non-HDB owner-occupied residential properties. This will

replace the present system of granting owner-occupied concessionary tax under the proviso to Section 6(5) of the Property Tax Act.

A new system of assessing HDB residential properties will also be put into place. An announcement on its implementation will be made in due course.

## OTHER TAX CHANGES

OTHER TAX CHANGES

## Stamp Duty for Property Transactions

Stamp Duty for Property Transactions

At present, all property transactions except stocks and marketable securities are chargeable to stamp duty at the rates of 2% for the first $30,000, 2.5% for the next $20,000 and 3% for amounts exceeding $50,000. To reduce the cost of buying and selling HDB properties and to facilitate upgrading and relocation, I have decided to lower the stamp duty on property transactions (except stocks and marketable securities) to 1% for all properties up to $90,000, 2% for the next $60,000 and leave the rate unchanged at 3% for all incremental values above $150,000. The revised structure will take effect from 1st April 1989. This measure will cost the Government about $44 million per year in revenue.

## Duty on Tobacco and Cigarettes

Duty on Tobacco and Cigarettes

Duties on cigarettes were raised last year as part of the national effort to discourage smoking. In line with this continuing effort, I propose therefore to increase the import duty on cigarettes by $10 per kilogram to $85 per kilogram. The import duty on tobacco and excise duty on cigarettes will also be increased to $42 and $40 per kilogram respectively. With your permission, Sir, I would like to table Appendix I (Cols. 43 - 46) showing the details of the increases. These increases will take effect from today. (Copies of document distributed to hon. Members).

Appendix I - DUTIES ON CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO (Cols. 43 - 46)

## Taxes on Public Utilities and Telephone Services

Taxes on Public Utilities and Telephone Services

The suspension of the tax on electricity and gas is due to expire on 31st March 1989. At present, a 10% tax on water charges in excess of $20 per month remain

in force. I have decided to replace this from 1st April 1989 with a 5% tax on the combined PUB charges for water, gas and electricity consumed by domestic users in excess of $40 per month. There will be no tax in the case of non- domestic users. With this change, domestic consumers will pay additional taxes of $7 million per year.

Similarly, the suspension of the 20% tax on domestic telephone services and trunk call services to West Malaysia is due to expire on 31st March 1989. I have decided to restore from 1st April 1989 a 5% tax on these services for residential subscribers. The suspension will, however, remain for the business subscribers. It is expected to bring in revenue of about $8 million a year.

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

Our economy has done well in the past year. This is due in no small measure to the willingness of our people to make short-term sacrifices for the longer term. They have accepted cuts in pay and CPF in order to see the economy nursed back to health. The cost-cutting measures put together in 1986 have restored our international competitiveness and put us back on the path of growth. Being a price taker, we must continue to be vigilant in maintaining and defending our competitiveness. Government will monitor closely the impact on businesses when reviewing statutory charges.

We must continue to run a tight ship and never allow ourselves to live beyond our means. Hence the Government will continue with its policy of collecting adequate revenue to cover expenditure. At the same

time, Government expenditure will be scrutinized closely to ensure that each tax dollar collected is well spent and efficiently employed. An efficient public sector will not soak up valuable resources needed by the private sector.

So long as we continue with these policies, we will be well prepared to face the uncertainties of the future. With a people who have shown their resilience and determination to overcome adversities, I am confident we have what it takes to succeed.

Sir, I beg to move. [Applause]

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1989 to 31st March, 1990." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 84, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed on what day, Dr Hu?

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: On Monday, 13th March, 1989.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 13th March, 1989." - [Mr Wong Kan Seng]

Adjourned accordingly at Twenty-four minutes to Five o'clock pm to Monday, 13th March, 1989.

Appendix I - DUTIES ON CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO (Cols. 43 - 46)
