# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1993-02-26
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker);

---

## Sitting resumed at 3.30 pm

## Sitting resumed at 3.30 pm

Sitting resumed at 3.30 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr, Speaker, Sir, i beg to move,

That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1993 to 31st March, 1994.

## PART I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

PART I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

## ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1992

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1992

After the 1985 recession, the Singapore economy rebounded strongly in 1987 and 1988. Quarterly growth rates then started falling steadily, from 11% in the first quarter of 1988 to 4.9% in the second quarter of 1992. This decline and the continued weakness of the US economy raised fears of a recession in Singapore in 1991. In particular, manufacturing growth fell rapidly from 11% in the first quarter of 1991 to 1.4% in the fourth quarter. The pessimistic outlook gained further support when the US economy only managed a weak recovery and the manufacturing sector recorded negative growth in the first quarter of 1992, the first time since the recession of 1985. Meanwhile, the financial sector was adversely affected by the consolidation of international banking activities and offshore risk management business. Consumer spending was also depressed due to weak sentiments.

Fortunately, the Singapore economy was diversified and regional growth was strong. Robust growth of the transport and communications, and construction sectors helped to keep overall growth in 1991 and the first half of 1992 at around 5%. With the gradual moderation in cost pressures and better external conditions, the economy bottomed out in the third quarter of 1992.

For 1992 as a whole, the economy grew by 5.8%. This is a creditable performance when compared with the other NIEs. Taiwan grew by 6.1%, Hong Kong by 5.0% and South Korea by 4.9%.

The manufacturing sector recovered from negative growth in the first quarter to register growth of 2.3% for the whole of 1992, on the back of strong growth in the output of electronics products such as

personal computers, disk drives and telecommunications equipment. The financial and business services sector was also stronger in the second half. This was due to higher demand for financing of regional projects, sustained growth in domestic loans and advances, and a more active foreign exchange market. Growth for the sector was 5.4%. Transport and communications continued to do well, riding on the strong regional economies. This sector grew by 9.2%. The construction sector continued to register double-digit growth, at 18%. The commerce sector was, however, sluggish. Retail trade was adversely affected by the change in composition of tourist arrivals, weaker tourist spending and cautious domestic consumer sentiment.

The slower growth moderated cost pressures. The labour market eased somewhat. The unemployment rate in June 1992 stood at 2.7% compared with 1.9% in 1991. This moderated wage cost increases. Nominal wages grew by 7.5% in 1992 compared with 9.2% in 1991. Productivity growth recovered in the second half, in line with the cyclical recovery in output. Productivity growth for 1992 averaged 3.1%, up from 1.5% in 1991.

In the manufacturing sector, slower growth in unit labour cost together with reduced utilities and interest costs helped to moderate business cost increases considerably. The Unit Business Cost Index for the manufacturing sector rose by only 1.9% in 1992. I refer Members to Chart 1 (Cols. 581 - 582). This compares favourably with the average annual increase of 4.9% between 1987 and 1991. However, with our weaker productivity performance relative to our competitors and a robust exchange rate, our relative unit labour cost against the other NIEs deteriorated slightly in 1992. I refer Members to Chart 2 (Cols. 581 - 582). The profit share in nominal GDP also fell marginally from 47% in 1991 to 46.2% in 1992. This is shown in Chart 3 (Cols. 583 - 584).

Charts 1 & 2 - Unit Business Cost of Manufacturing 1980-92, Singapore's Relative Unit Labour Cost Against The Other NIEs In Manufacturing, (1980=100) (Cols. 581 - 582)

Chart 3 - Profit Share of Nominal GDP 1980-92 (Cols. 583 - 584)

## OUTLOOK FOR 1993

OUTLOOK FOR 1993

The global outlook for 1993 is cautiously optimistic. Although forecasts by the OECD and IMF in the last 2 years have been scaled down repeatedly, their most recent forecasts point to better prospects in the industrial countries. The OECD and IMF expect the US economy to grow by 2.4% to 3% in 1993. This bullish assessment is supported by data showing good quarterly growth rates and stronger consumer confidence. The UK and Canada are also expected to recover from recession. However, the other two large industrial economies, Germany and Japan, are slowing down. Overall, the industrial countries are likely to grow by 1.9% in 1993, up from the 1.5% in 1992.

The growth prospects in East Asia, which accounts for one-third of our non-oil domestic exports, remain good. Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong expect to grow by 7%, 6% to 7% and 5% respectively. Malaysia and Thailand are expected to grow by 8% and Indonesia by 6.5%. China is likely to register double-digit growth again in 1993.

The business community expects business conditions to be stable in the first 6 months of 1993. In the latest survey of business expectations, a net balance of 9% of firms in the manufacturing sector expect business conditions in the first half of 1993 to be better than the preceding 6 months. Firms in the electronics industry are optimistic, with a net balance of 29% expecting better business. Business in the commerce sector is expected to be more moderate after the year-end high. The transport and business services sectors are optimistic about prospects. The leading indicators, which indicate economic activity about three quarters ahead, continue to show an upward trend.

Although our relative competitiveness position has declined slightly, investors are confident about Singapore's fundamentals. Investment commitments in the

manufacturing sector amounted to $3.5 billion in 1992, a record high. These high-quality new projects, with projected incremental value added per worker of $240,000, or about 4 times the existing average, will boost the productivity of the manufacturing sector.

In view of the generally favourable external and domestic conditions, the Ministry of Trade and Industry's assessment is that growth in 1993 will be between 6% and 7%. The Government will therefore adjust the CPF contribution rates by another half a percentage point with effect from 1st July 1993. The employers' contribution rate will be raised by 0.5 percentage point to 18.5% while the employees' contribution rate will be reduced by 0.5 percentage point to 21.5%. If the world economic environment remains favourable in 1994 and our economy continues to grow satisfactorily, Government will further adjust the CPF contribution rates in 1994 by an additional 1.5 percentage points, bringing the contribution rates for the employer and employee to 20% each on 1st July 1994.

## STRENGTHENING THE EXTERNAL DIMENSION OF THE SINGAPORE ECONOMY

STRENGTHENING THE EXTERNAL DIMENSION OF THE SINGAPORE ECONOMY

For the next few years, we can achieve a growth rate of around 5% to 6% provided we keep our competitiveness on an even keel and the world economic situation remains stable. In the longer term, however, high growth rates require new policy orientations to overcome the supply-side constraints of labour, land and services within Singapore.

Emerging NIEs in the region are better endowed with land, labour and natural resources. They are becoming more competitive. Singapore must find the right response, to avoid becoming a failed NIE, namely, one which did not fulfil its early promise and failed to make it to become a developed country. In the race of nations, it is impossible for us to stand still and try to preserve what we have.

Efforts to improve productivity and restructure the domestic economy to

squeeze more out of each unit of resource will face diminishing returns, as we are already starting from a relatively high base. This has happened in all developed economies. The way out is to build an external dimension to our economy, in order to help us to overcome the problems of a small mature domestic market and a limited resource base. This is what the other NIEs have done in the past 5 years and what some developed countries like Switzerland and Japan have done over a much longer period.

Many new business opportunities are to be found in the high growth countries around us. Foreign MNCs which come to Singapore have not done so with the primary aim to sell to the domestic market. They have always depended on markets in the developed countries and, increasingly in recent years, the fast-growing Asia-Pacific region. Singapore entrepreneurs must do likewise.

The potential of the Asian market is vast, but sometimes underestimated. China and India both have official per capita GNP of less than US$400, but they have pockets of an emerging middle class in urban areas. It is reckoned that at least 5 Chinese cities - Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin - have per capita incomes above US$1,000. This places them on par with countries like Thailand. In India, the middle class is estimated to number between 100 and 350 million. This is up to 100 times the size of the Singapore market. The emerging middle class is demanding consumer durables like TV sets, refrigerators, motor-cycles and eventually cars. Moreover, the Asian region is expected to grow faster than the more established markets in the OECD countries where growth will be no more than 2% to 3%. The size of the Asian market and its growth potential represent a source of business opportunities for Singapore entrepreneurs, which we cannot afford to neglect.

Some Singapore entrepreneurs have already ventured abroad to do business in the region. As at end-1990, Singapore companies had invested a total of $27.8 billion overseas. Direct investments

amounted to $7.5 billion which is equivalent to 12% of GNP. This is lower than Switzerland's and the Netherlands'. They have the equivalent of one-third of their GNP in direct investments overseas. Over time, as Singapore entrepreneurs gain experience, our overseas assets will also grow.

In a recent study, the Ministry of Trade and Industry found that two-thirds of our direct investments overseas were in Asia and Australasia. Malaysia was the largest single destination, with $1.7 billion invested. In the last few years, we have become the largest foreign investor in Johor in terms of the number of projects. We have also participated in large projects in Batam and Bintan. Since the economic reforms in China, Singapore companies have also established a presence there. Singapore companies are involved in a wide variety of businesses in China - property development, industrial estate development, leisure and resort development, manufacture of computer peripherals and parts, software development and confectionery. In Vietnam and Cambodia, Singapore companies have invested in the food and beverage, textile and furniture industries. Statutory boards and Government-linked companies are well-represented in infrastructure projects in the region - industrial estate development, airport planning and design, and telecommunications.

To be realistic, the external economy will not supplant the domestic economy as the main engine of growth. Even in Switzerland and the Netherlands, income earned from overseas assets accounts for only 8% to 9% of GNP. The external economy is however valuable because of its ability to improve the economic structure in two ways. First, it generates business and economies of scale for companies operating in Singapore, making the domestic economy more productive. Second, it strengthens our links with other rapidly growing countries in the region, so that we will not be so heavily dependent on the developed countries for growth and markets.

Regionalisation is not just a matter of sheer numbers. It requires that we find the right projects and the right firms with the ability to turn a promising idea into a profitable business. Since the subject was highlighted, many Singaporean entrepreneurs have contributed their ideas on the subject. They have among them accumulated valuable experience in working and investing in the region. Such people are still far too few, however, compared to opportunities waiting to be seized. If we can overcome the hindrances that hold others back, more entrepreneurs will in time emerge.

The difficulties of getting Singaporeans to work abroad have been discussed extensively elsewhere and I will not repeat them here. We must be realistic about our weaknesses and find ways to overcome them. We must also build on our strengths. Our main strength is in organisations with proven professionalism and collective competence, not an abundance of individual mavericks with the touch of gold. Companies like SIA, Keppel, Sembawang, and Singapore Telecom, and statutory boards like PSA and PUB, have created strong management teams, with a depth and breadth of expertise equal to their competitors in the region. Some of them are starting to make their presence as corporations felt outside Singapore. We must leverage on this strength to go offshore, not only as individuals, but systematically in corporate teams.

Government-linked companies (GLCs) and statutory boards are among our strong companies. We should tap their expertise to spearhead the regionalisation drive. Some concerns have been expressed that statutory boards and GLCs are not ready for this role because their priority is their domestic mission, or worse, because they are not business-minded. I believe that once the broad direction is set and the proper incentives are put in place, they will give more emphasis to their overseas operations. For example, STI, the international arm of Singapore Telecom, has invested US$150 million in 11 countries. It is involved in mobile phone ventures in Vietnam, India, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Keppel,

Sembawang and the companies in the Singapore Technologies stable have also participated successfully in regional ventures.

These examples give us confidence that these companies can do much more. The question is how can they link up with the private sector, which is also doing regional business on its own. The Government will find ways for statutory boards and GLCs to work with private companies in overseas ventures. This could take the form of consortiums or joint ventures where both parties take the risks and share the rewards. Commodore Teo Chee Hean's Committee to Promote Enterprise Overseas will be examining this and many other related issues over the next few months.

The private sector has proposed changes in tax incentives and tax rules to facilitate the drive to go offshore. The Government will take up some of these proposals in this Budget. I shall elaborate on these later in my speech. Whilst there is merit in building into our tax regime incentives for specific offshore activities, the more comprehensive approach is to lower direct taxes, both corporate and personal income taxes, across the board. This will encourage enterprise, both within and outside Singapore, and in whatever activities that businessmen choose. Individuals will be encouraged to take part in risky but highly profitable ventures, knowing that if they dare and succeed, Government will not cream off a large share of their rewards. This is why the Government will reform the tax structure to reduce corporate and personal income taxes, and introduce a Goods and Services Tax (GST) next year.

The Government is sometimes accused of levying increasingly heavy taxes on Singaporeans. Figures, however, disprove this. Since 1988, Government operating revenue, which includes Government taxes, ARF, COEs and foreign worker levy, have formed about 20% of GDP. This

compares with about 22% of GDP before the 1985 recession. The figure for 1992 was slightly higher, at around 23% of GDP, but this still gives no reason for alarm that taxes and levies are consuming an unprecedented and unsustainable share of national income. (See Chart 4 (Cols. 583 - 584))

Chart 4 - Government Operating Revenue As A Proportion of GDP (Cols. 583 - 584)

Our figure of taxes making up 23% of GDP is comparable to that in other Asean countries and NIEs, and significantly below the 40% to 60% in OECD countries. (See Table 1 (Cols. 585 - 586)) The gap between us and the developed countries gives us a competitive advantage and helps us to attract investments.

Table 1 - Government Revenue As Proportion of GDP (Cols. 585 - 586)

The only Government with a significantly lower operating revenue than Singapore is Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, operating revenue forms 15% of GDP, compared to Singapore's 20%. However, there are fundamental differences between Hong Kong's circumstances and ours. Hong Kong is not a nation. Singapore is. Hong Kong does not have to provide for defence, which alone consumes 5% of our GDP each year. Nor does it have a heavily subsidised public housing programme, which is a major component of the Singapore Government's social policy. This is why Hong Kong's corporate tax and top personal tax rates can be much lower than Singapore's. It is impossible for Singapore to emulate Hong Kong's example.

Although the overall tax burden on Singaporeans is not high, our revenue structure needs to be improved. Over half of our operating revenue is from direct taxes, while the bulk of indirect taxes fall on only a few items. We need to shift the burden of tax from direct taxes to indirect taxes with a broad base. Hence the introduction of the GST.

This major change in our tax system is in line with tax reforms in other parts of the world. In the 1960s and 1970s, countries like the UK and New Zealand relied heavily on direct taxes to fund Government expenditure, including generous welfare programmes. Top

marginal tax rates were as high as 75% in the UK, 70% in the US and 50% in New Zealand. This "soak the rich" approach did not work. In practice, high nominal tax rates were tempered with various loopholes that allowed the rich to avoid taxes. The result was that few really paid taxes at the very high rates, while unproductive work was expended on tax avoidance and lobbying to enhance or maintain special concessions. Talented people who could not dodge taxes voted with their feet by moving to lower tax countries. These countries have since reformed their tax systems and reduced income tax rates. Usually the result has been higher, rather than lower tax collections from the high income groups. We should never forget these costly experiences of other countries, and unwittingly diminish the incentive to work and to invest. It is far better to encourage the talented by taxing them lightly than to tax them punitively and force them to under perform, evade taxes or leave.

Recent international developments give greater urgency to tax reform. Our last major revision of direct tax rates was in 1986, during the recession, when both the corporate tax rate and the top personal tax rate were reduced from 40% to 33%. This, and other cost-cutting measures, gave a significant boost to our competitiveness and helped the economy to recover speedily. However, since then many other countries (including the developed countries) have reduced their tax rates significantly. (See Table 2 (Cols. 587 - 588)) This trend has eroded the margin we enjoy. Although we cannot match every country's tax rate reductions, we must take cognizance of such developments and make the necessary adjustments in good time. We must also note that Singapore has comparative disadvantages in higher land and labour costs compared with many emerging economies in the region. A lower corporate tax rate will help to offset this disadvantage.

Table 2 - Top Personal Tax Rates (Cols. 587 - 588)

In the long term, Government aims for a 25% corporate tax rate and a slightly

higher top personal tax rate. Given sustained economic growth, we can achieve this with the 3% GST, without needing to raise the GST rate further. The GST rate will stay at 3% for at least 5 years and thereafter for as long as revenue needs are not pressing.

The re-orientation of our economic development strategy and the change in the tax system will take time to work through. I am confident that the private sector will respond favourably to the steps outlined. Those who succeed will encourage others to emulate them. Momentum will build up. The results will no longer be constrained by Singapore's size but by the ingenuity of individual and corporate Singaporeans. In time a second pillar of the Singapore economy, comprising strong local companies and their foreign operations, will become a major contributor to our national wealth.

At the same time, we will continue with our efforts to be attractive to foreign MNCs, who will always remain important to us. We will continue to welcome foreign capital and encourage R&D. There will be no let-up in the development of human resources and physical infrastructure. When we develop this external dimension, Singapore's economy will have the prospect of many more years of prosperous growth.

## PART II - THE FY93 BUDGET

PART II - THE FY93 BUDGET

Mr Speaker, Sir, allow me to move on to the Budget for the next financial year.

## EXPENDITURE POLICY

EXPENDITURE POLICY

The Government's expenditure policy will continue to be guided by the philosophy of investing in the future. Expenditure will focus on areas which promote and support future growth. These are education, economic infrastructure, health care, public housing and national security. Quality of life in

Singapore will be sustained through greater funding for the arts, sports, cultural and recreational activities.

Control of costs will remain the cornerstone of expenditure policy. As the flagship of Singapore's economy, the private sector must play the leading role. The public sector will therefore be kept lean and trim to make available to the private sector a bigger share of national financial and manpower resources.

All operating and development expenditures will be met from operating revenues. Moreover, a substantial part of the surplus expected in FY93 will be channelled towards building up the Edusave Endowment Fund established last year and the Medical Endowment Fund which will be set up in April this year. Together with Government subsidies and Medisave, the Medical Endowment Fund will ensure that no Singaporean is deprived of basic medical care.

## The FY93 Expenditure Estimates

The FY93 Expenditure Estimates

The Government's medium-term policy target is to keep total operating and development expenditure within 20% of GDP, with 12% for operating expenditure and 8% for development expenditure.

In FY93, operating expenditure is forecast to increase from 11.7% to 11.9% of GDP while development expenditure is projected at 7% of GDP, up from 5.5% in FY92. Together, operating and development expenditure will amount to nearly 19% of GDP.

In dollar terms, total Government expenditure for FY93 is expected to reach $15.5 billion, an increase of 18% over FY92. Social and Community Services will continue to have by far the largest share, taking up nearly 40%. Expenditure in this area is mainly on education, health care services, environmental protection, community development and subsidies on public housing. National security, covering Defence and Home Affairs, will take up the second largest share of more than 33% of total expenditure.

The proposed budget allocations reflect the priorities of Government. They are to provide infrastructure as a basis for

economic growth, ensure national security, house our people in decent, affordable housing in a clean and green environment, invest in quality education as well as provide good basic health care and a wide range of social amenities.

Let me at this juncture take a moment to re-emphasize Government's commitment to education. As members are aware, Government will build up the Edusave Endowment Fund to $5 billion, to put in place a strong permanent foundation for educational standards to be continually upgraded. This is crucial, for the experience of many countries has shown that the surest way to secure continued success in an uncertain world is by investing in the education of future generations. A well educated and highly skilled people will always remain the fundamental objective of Government.

In keeping with this philosophy, the Government will increase its FY92 capital contribution to the Edusave Endowment Fund from $1 billion to $1.5 billion. The additional $500 million will come from the projected surplus for FY92. Supplementary Estimates to effect this will be tabled in Parliament next week. With this transfer, the total allocation for education in FY92 will amount to 5.5% of GDP, which exceeds the allocation for every other sector, including defence. A further sum of $500 million has been earmarked for transfer to Edusave in FY93. This will bring the total Edusave endowment to $2 billion, double the current amount.

Government will also make its first capital transfer of $200 million to the Medical Endowment Fund in FY93. This Fund will eventually be built up to $1 billion. A one-off allocation of $5 million has also been provided to enable disbursements to be made from the Fund in FY93 itself for the benefit of Singaporeans who cannot afford basic medical care.

Allow me now to elaborate on the FY93 expenditure proposals.

## Operating Expenditure

Operating Expenditure

Operating expenditure comprises Expenditure on Manpower, Other Operating Expenditure, Grants-in-Aid and

Pensions. For FY93, operating expenditure is projected at $9.7 billion. This is about 9.4% more than the revised FY92 expenditure of $8.9 billion.

Some 25% of Operating Expenditure will go towards Expenditure on Manpower, which is projected to rise by $358.6 million or 17.1% to $2.5 billion in FY93. This is 3% of GDP, compared to 2.8% in FY92. The increase is mainly to cater for salary increments, some salary adjustments and the filling of vacancies.

The authorised staff complement for ministries, organs of state and Government-funded statutory boards will decline by 0.6% or about 600 posts to nearly 99,500 posts in FY93. The decrease is due to Nanyang Polytechnic taking over the training of nurses and radiographers from the Ministry of Health, as well as restructuring and privatisation activities.

Around 88,000 persons are currently employed in the Civil Service and Government-funded statutory boards. This is about 600 persons less than a year ago. It shows the success of the Zero-Growth in Manpower Policy. Whilst Government remains committed to this policy, we will nevertheless ensure that it does not lead to a decline in standards or quality of public services. Wherever possible, increases in workload or manpower needs for new areas will be met through retraining, redeployment and productivity improvements. Where this is not possible, increases will be granted. For example, 116 new posts will be created in FY93 for the Ministry of Community Development to cater for the expansion of sports facilities and new community centres. Another 292 posts will be provided to the Ministry of Education to keep pace with the increase in student enrolment in schools and other teaching institutions.

Other Operating Expenditure or OOE is projected at $5.1 billion or 6.2% of GDP. The OOE provision is an increase of $325 million over FY92, due mainly to the provision of agency fees for the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore, reimbursements to restructured hospitals, and

bursaries for the training of nurses. Higher expenditures will also be needed for estate management and the maintenance of roads.

Grants-in-Aid will amount to $1.9 billion or 2.3% of GDP. It represents an increase of $141 million over FY92's provision, which is largely to meet the higher operating costs of schools and polytechnics, and the rising cost of subsidised medical care. Higher grants to the Economic Development Board, National Productivity Board, Singapore Broadcasting Corporation and the National Arts Council account for the rest of the increase.

Pensions expenditure is expected to remain under 0.5% of GDP. In dollar terms, it will increase by some $13 million or 4% over FY92. This is due to an increase in the number of pensioners and the rising cost of medical subsidy for pensioners.

## Development Expenditure

Development Expenditure

$5.8 billion or 7% of GDP is proposed for development expenditure in FY93. This is around 37% of total expenditure, up from 32% in FY92. It is also closer to the medium term target of keeping development expenditure at no less than 40% of total expenditure, in line with the objective of allocating an increasing share of the budget towards development expenditure.

Direct Government development expenditure will increase by nearly 50% to $3.1 billion, or 3.8% of GDP. Major projects include land reclamation at Changi East and several other sites, the schools building programmes, provision of computer facilities for secondary schools, construction of Revenue House, and the development of Eastern General Hospital and the new Kandang Kerbau Hospital.

The capital subsidy for public housing is projected to reach $900 million, an increase of nearly 50% over FY92. HDB will need substantial increases in subsidies to build more flats and implement its Flat Upgrading Programme. More funds will also be needed to provide higher capital grants to Town Councils and a grant to HDB for the discount given on the sale of tenanted HDB shophouses.

R&D, or Research and Development, is increasingly recognized internationally as being of strategic importance in enhancing industrial competitiveness. To sustain the push towards greater industry-related R&D, a sum of $350 million or 0.4% of GDP will be allocated to the R&D Fund to be administered by the National Science and Technology Board. This represents an increase of 27% over FY92's allocation. It is in line with the policy to increase funding for industry-related R&D.

Another $1.4 billion or 1.7% of GDP in capital grants will be given to other statutory boards. Projects which require capital grants in FY93 include the Woodlands extension to the MRT system, a new campus for Temasek Polytechnic, and the expansion and upgrading of the 2 universities. Capital grants are also required for economic development schemes administered by the Economic Development Board, development of tourism infrastructure on Sentosa, and development and improvement works to community centres.

## MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE

MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE

Let me now touch briefly on progress made in implementing management accounting systems in Government ministries and zero-base reviews conducted by the Auditor-General's Office.

## Management Accounting Systems

Management Accounting Systems

Phase I of the programme to install centralized computer based management accounting systems in all Government ministries and departments has been completed on schedule. Management accounting systems, or SIGMA, have been operational in the Ministries of Finance, Education, Health, Environment and National Development since April last year. Management reports generated by SIGMA are being used in these ministries to allocate resources and generate an awareness of the true costs of delivering public services. This will allow managers in Government ministries and departments to identify and weed out inefficient and unproductive practices. SIGMA will now be fine-tuned to make it more user-friendly, and extended to all departments in these ministries.

I am also pleased to report that the extension of SIGMA to all other ministries is ahead of schedule. By April this year, working management accounting systems will be in place in all ministries. By April next year, they would have been extended to all departments. Statutory boards are also being encouraged to introduce similar systems. I am confident that over time public service managers will use these management accounting systems to become more productive and deliver a higher quality of public service at lower cost.

## Zero-base Reviews

Zero-base Reviews

The Auditor-General's Office is responsible for conducting periodic zero-base reviews of individual ministries. The principal objective of these reviews is to ensure that ministries consciously and constantly monitor their own performances to keep their practices, operating procedures and policies current and relevant in achieving Government's priorities.

Over the past year, the Auditor-General's Office has conducted zero-base reviews of the Ministries of Education, Trade and Industry, Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister's Office and the Attorney-General's Chambers. Reviews of the Ministries of Labour and Law are in progress. Three other ministries are scheduled to be reviewed over the next one and a half years.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: Order. I suspend this sitting and will take the Chair again at 5.00 pm.

## Sitting accordingly suspended

Sitting accordingly suspended

## at 4.18 pm until 5.00 pm.

at 4.18 pm until 5.00 pm.

## Sitting resumed at 5.00 pm

## Sitting resumed at 5.00 pm

Sitting resumed at 5.00 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

## PART III - FISCAL POSITION, TAX CHANGES, AND OFFSETS FOR THE GST

PART III - FISCAL POSITION, TAX CHANGES, AND OFFSETS FOR THE GST

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Mr Speaker, Sir, I shall now move on to describe our fiscal position and the proposed tax changes

for FY93. I will also be announcing the corporate, personal and other indirect tax changes which form part of the GST package.

We have a healthy budget balance. Government had a surplus in FY92, mainly because its operating revenue was buoyant. For FY93, operating revenue is estimated to be $17.2 billion, whilst the operating and development expenditure is budgeted at $15.5 billion, so that a modest operating surplus of $1.7 billion is expected. Given sustained economic growth, revenue should remain buoyant and if costs are kept under control, we should continue to have budget surpluses in the next few years.

The target date of April 1994 for the introduction of GST has already been announced. Our favourable fiscal outlook will allow the GST to be implemented in a revenue-negative way. The GST will be introduced with a generous package of offsets, comprising corporate and personal income tax reductions, rebates and subsidies which, taken together, will exceed the GST collected in the first few years of its implementation. We will ensure that as far as possible, no household will be worse-off when the GST is implemented.

This year, I will discuss proposed tax changes in two parts. Part I will be concerned with tax changes specific to FY93. It will also deal with initiatives we are introducing this year to develop an external economy and to attract new investments into Singapore. Part II will be concerned with GST-related changes. It will deal with corporate and personal tax cuts, property tax rebates, compensating adjustments to existing indirect taxes, as well as additional rebates and expenditures to help lower income groups cope with the GST.

## FY93 TAX CHANGES

FY93 TAX CHANGES

The thrust of this year's tax changes will be to promote our investments abroad. This is in line with our current economic strategy. There will also be tax incentives to promote offshore activities in

Singapore. In addition, in view of the healthy revenue position, I will grant some one-off tax rebates for Year of Assessment 1993. These will benefit both companies and individuals.

Tax Changes for Companies

## Property Tax Rebate

Property Tax Rebate

For companies, I propose to give a rebate on property tax. It shall be a one-off 25% rebate for commercial and industrial properties for the year commencing July 1993. This will offset some of the business cost increases in the year and help maintain Singapore as an attractive location for doing business. The revenue loss to Government is estimated at $145 million per annum. The rebate is intended to be shared between landlords and their tenants. In order to demonstrate this, HDB, JTC and other Government agencies owning properties will pass on most of this rebate to their tenants. The Government strongly encourages other private landlords to do likewise, and pass on at least half the rebate to their tenants.

## Tax Incentives to Promote an External Economy

Tax Incentives to Promote an External Economy

While I recognise the importance of building an external economy, I must stress that tax-wise we must not make outward investments generally more attractive than domestic ones. Foreign incomes therefore cannot be exempt from tax across-the-board. This is to avoid a hollowing out of our domestic industries. An across-the-board exemption will also open up a tax loophole for local source income to make a round-trip and return disguised as foreign income to enjoy tax exemption. For these reasons, the exemption of foreign incomes from tax will be given only on a case-by-case basis.

A total of seven incentives to promote the development of an external economy are proposed. They are:

(a) Unilateral tax credit for dividend income remitted from countries with whom we do not as yet have tax treaties.

(b) Extension of the unilateral tax credit scheme for services income, to include income remitted from Fiji,

Kampuchea, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam, and to include other types of services.

(c) Extension of the double tax deduction scheme for approved expenses incurred in the promotion of exports, to cover export of services.

(d) Double tax deduction for approved expenses incurred in exploring and developing overseas investment opportunities.

(e) Removal of a requirement under the Overseas Investment Incentive to form separate companies.

(f) Tax exemption scheme for venture capital and regional funds to promote investments in the Asia-Pacific region.

(g) Overseas Enterprise Incentive. This incentive provides approved Overseas Enterprises with tax exemption for qualifying income from approved kinds of overseas investments for periods of up to 10 years.

I will now ask the Clerk of Parliament to distribute a paper entitled Paper 1 (Cols. 589 - 592) which gives details of the incentives I have described.

Paper 1 - TAX INCENTIVES TO PROMOTE AN EXTERNAL ECONOMY (Cols. 589 - 592)

## Tax Changes to Attract Offshore Activities to Singapore

Tax Changes to Attract Offshore Activities to Singapore

I now move on to tax changes to attract offshore activities to Singapore. A total of six incentives are proposed and they are:

(a) To promote Singapore as an international centre for the trading of arts and antiques, a 10% concessionary tax rate will be granted to approved art and antique dealers on income derived from transacting on behalf of non-residents with approved auction houses.

(b) Tax exemption for non-resident beneficiaries of trusts where the trustee is an Approved Trustee Company. This is an extension of an existing incentive to promote trustee services in Singapore.

(c) Extension of tax holiday for SIMEX by a further 5 years.

(d) Provision for extending the Warehousing and Servicing Incentives for periods not exceeding 5 years at a time.

(e) Extension of the tax exemption scheme for syndicated offshore credit and underwriting facilities, by an additional 5 years.

(f) Exemption from tax for interest paid by members of the RAS Commodity Exchange. This is an extension of an existing incentive to enhance the international competitiveness of the Exchange.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I will now ask the Clerk of Parliament to distribute copies of Paper 2 (Cols. 593 - 598) with details of these incentives. This paper also contains a proposal on the treatment of capital allowances and losses of companies enjoying tax incentives.

Paper 2 - TAX CHANGES TO ATTRACT OFFSHORE ACTIVITIES TO SINGAPORE (Cols. 593 - 598)

## Cap on Deduction for Medical Expenses

Cap on Deduction for Medical Expenses

Hitherto, employers have been allowed to deduct for tax purposes all expenses incurred in providing medical benefits to employees without limit. This was not a problem in the past, when medical benefits were a minor expense. But in the long term, this arrangement will inflate health care expenditures and encourage over-consumption of medical services. It makes it worthwhile for both employers and employees to provide more medical benefits in their compensation packages than they would otherwise, rather than cash salaries. This is because employees have to pay tax on cash salaries while they enjoy medical benefits free of tax, and yet both medical benefits and cash salaries are tax-deductible to the employer. This difference in tax treatment between medical benefits and cash salaries reduces the incentive for both employers and employees to be cost-conscious in consuming medical services, as part of the cost of these services is borne by the Government in the form of forgone taxes.

In the US, employer-provided medical benefits enjoy unlimited tax exemption.

As a result, these benefits account for 10% of all health care spending. According to a recent report on the US automobile industry, the cost of steel per US-made car is less than the cost of medical benefits per car. Many experts who have studied the problem of high medical costs in the US have concluded that this tax exemption is a major cause of the high costs, and that any serious attempt to contain health costs must include setting a cap on tax-free medical benefits. However, it is extremely difficult for the US to do so now, after medical costs have risen and the high medical benefits have become the norm.

We do not as yet have a serious problem in Singapore. A recent survey of 325 companies by the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore showed that in 59% (around 190) of them, health care expenditure formed less than 1% of the total remuneration for their employees. I refer Members to Table 3 (Cols. 587 - 588). In another 26% (or 85) of the companies, health spending was between 1% and 2% of total remuneration. However, a few astute employers paid medical benefits amounting to over 5% of total remuneration.

Table 3 - Medical Benefits as Percentage of Total Remuneration in 325 Companies (Cols. 587 - 588)

To prevent a problem from developing in future, Government will cap the tax deductibility of expenses on medical benefits by employers at 2% of total employees' remuneration with effect from Year of Assessment 1994. Companies are free to give medical benefits even beyond this 2% figure if they wish to do so, but such benefits will no longer be tax-deductible.

Government's aim is to pre-empt a future problem and not to deprive any workers of existing medical benefits. Most companies (85%) will be unaffected by this 2% cap, as their medical benefits form less than 2% of payroll. Government will give companies which have already exceeded the 2% cap in Year of Assessment 1992 time to adjust to the new rules. These companies will not have to pay tax on the entire amount of the

excess above 2% immediately. In the first year, they will be allowed to deduct up to 4% of payroll or their percentage in Year of Assessment 1992, whichever is the lower. This transitional cap of 4% for such companies will be reduced gradually by 0.5 percentage point per year until it reaches 2% after 5 years.

The cap for new companies will be 2%. For companies enjoying concessionary tax treatment, the resulting increase in income from disallowing expenses in excess of the cap will not be treated as concessionary income but will be taxed at the full corporate tax rate.

Government is also reviewing the medical benefits of public sector employees. Details will be announced later in the year.

I will now move on to deal with personal income tax changes for FY93.

Personal Income Tax Changes

## Individual Income Tax Rebate

Individual Income Tax Rebate

Our economy grew by a satisfactory 5.8% in 1992. Singaporeans have worked hard to achieve this despite the sluggish world economy. As encouragement for continued effort, I have decided to give an across-the-board one-off rebate of 5% on individual income tax in Year of Assessment 1993. The estimated revenue loss to Government is $91 million.

## Rebate of Service and Conservancy Charges

Rebate of Service and Conservancy Charges

For Singaporeans staying in 1 to 3-room HDB flats who pay little or no income tax, Government has decided to pay on their behalf the Service and Conservancy charges payable in the month of December 1993. This will be a one-off payment for citizens only, the equivalent of the 5% income tax rebate. The estimated expenditure by the Government is $10 million.

## CPF Share Ownership Top-Up Scheme

CPF Share Ownership Top-Up Scheme

At the National Day Rally last August, the Prime Minister spoke of the Government's intention to increase the assets of Singaporeans under an Assets-enlargement Programme. In addition to

HDB upgrading and the sale of HDB shops programmes, he said that the Government would sell shares of corporatised statutory boards at a discount to Singaporeans. His aim was to make Singapore a share-owning society as well as a home-owning society.

The Ministry of Communications will be floating Singapore Telecom (ST) on the Stock Exchange later this year. Details will be announced nearer the date of flotation. As part of the flotation, Government will sell several hundred ST shares at a discount to each CPF member who is a Singapore citizen. This is part of a programme to build up the assets held by Singaporeans, and promote widespread long-term ownership of blue-chip stocks, so that Singaporeans will have a more direct stake in the growth and prosperity of Singapore.

To launch this share-owning programme, in addition to the 5% rebate on personal income tax and the rebate for Service and Conservancy charges, the Government will implement a Share Ownership CPF Top-Up Scheme to help middle and working-class Singaporeans to own shares.

The CPF Top-Up Scheme will be confined to citizens aged 21 and above who are CPF members. In September, the Government will contribute a $200 grant into each such CPF account, provided the member or his employer has paid in at least $500 during the 6-month period from 1st March 1993 to 31st August 1993. Members who pay in less than $500 will receive a pro-rated contribution from the Government. Citizens without CPF accounts will be allowed to start one to benefit from the Scheme. Retirees, housewives and the self-employed can therefore also enjoy, first the CPF Top-Up, and later, the purchase of Singapore Telecom shares at a discount.

This $500 co-payment that we require corresponds to a CPF contribution of $83 per month, or a salary of about $250 per month. Thus almost all working Singaporeans will qualify for the full $200 CPF top-up. The Scheme is expected to cost the Government around $200 million.

It will take some time for Singaporeans who have not owned shares to become familiar with shares, and to learn the value of investing part of their assets in the shares of blue-chip companies like Singapore Telecom. They will learn from experience how good shares can multiply many times in value over the next 5 to 10 years. In future, when we have strong budgetary surpluses, we will from time to time top-up their CPF accounts to help Singaporeans buy shares of other statutory boards which will be corporatised. This way, every Singaporean will own shares and properties, which will appreciate in value as Singapore continues to prosper because of sound economic and social policies plus their own hard work.

Other FY93 Tax Changes Affecting Individuals

In addition to the foregoing, I am proposing six other tax changes affecting individuals. The proposals are set out in detail in Paper 3 (Cols. 597 - 600) which I will now ask the Clerk of Parliament to distribute. Briefly, they deal with:

(a) Unilateral tax credit for overseas employment income and director's fee.

(b) Taxation of retirement benefits.

(c) Waiver of the residence requirement for the aged parent and handicapped sibling reliefs.

(d) Separate assessment for married women on all incomes.

(e) Separate claims for normal and enhanced child reliefs.

(f) Tax deduction for CPF contributions by self-employed individuals.

Paper 3 - OTHER FY93 TAX CHANGES AFFECTING INDIVIDUALS (Cols. 597 - 600)

Other Tax Changes

## Duties on Cigarettes and Tobacco

Duties on Cigarettes and Tobacco

Duties on cigarettes and tobacco were last revised in March 1991 to discourage smoking. In support of the national anti-smoking campaign and in particular to discourage smoking among our younger population, the import duty on cigarettes will be raised from $100 to $115 per

kilogram. The import duty on tobacco and excise duty on cigarettes will also be raised from $50 to $60 per kilogram. Details of the duty changes for the various types of igarettes and tobacco are in Appendix A (Cols. 601 - 604). The change in duties will take effect from today.

Appendix A - CHANGES IN CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO DUTIES (Cols. 601 - 604)

I now turn to tax changes which will take effect next year when the GST is introduced. These tax changes constitute a major reform of our tax system, and are a principal reason for the Government to introduce the GST now.

## TAX CHANGES TO ACCOMPANY THE GST

TAX CHANGES TO ACCOMPANY THE GST

## Corporate Tax Change

Corporate Tax Change

The corporate tax rate of 30% will be reduced by 3 percentage points to 27%. This will take effect from Year of Assessment 1994. The reduction represents a major step towards the target of a 25% corporate tax rate. It will ensure that Singapore's corporate tax rate remains competitive internationally. The estimated revenue loss is $318 million per annum.

## Personal Tax Changes

Personal Tax Changes

The top personal income tax rate of 33% will be reduced by 3 percentage points to 30%, with proportionate reductions in other tax brackets. The reduction in personal tax rates for each tax bracket is in Appendix B (Cols. 605 - 606).

Appendix B - REDUCTION IN PERSONAL INCOME TAX RATES WITH EFFECT FROM YA94 (Cols. 605 - 606)

Personal relief will be increased by $1,000, from $2,000 to $3,000

A rebate on individual income tax will be granted annually. The rebate will be $700 in the first year, declining by $50 per year until it reaches $500 in the fifth year, after which it will remain at $500. This means that resident individuals will have their income tax liability reduced by the amount of the rebate, that is to say, $700 in the first year. Individuals whose liability is already $700 or less will not have to pay income tax for that year.

I have chosen to give a combination of tax rebate and personal relief, rather than

to rely on higher personal relief alone, because a tax rebate benefits low income taxpayers more than higher personal relief, for the same amount of revenue forgone.

The personal income tax changes will take effect from Year of Assessment 1994. Revenue loss is estimated at $494 million per annum.

## Property tax rebate

Property tax rebate

The Government will give owner-occupied residential properties with annual values of less than $10,000 a property tax rebate based on a sliding scale. For properties with annual values of $5,000 or less, the maximum rebate of $150 per annum will be given. For annual values between $5,000 and $10,000, the rebate will vary along a straight line from $150 at $5,000 to zero at $10,000. This will benefit most HDB owner-occupiers, and also households staying in lower-end private properties such as terrace houses, shophouses and private walk-up flats. The revenue loss is estimated at $69 million per annum.

## Changes in Other Existing Indirect Taxes

Changes in Other Existing Indirect Taxes

The Government currently levies a range of indirect taxes, for example tourism cess, utilities taxes on PUB and Telecom bills, excise duty on petrol and import duties on vehicles. The Government will suspend or reduce the following levies with effect from 1st April 1994, to offset the GST.

The cess charge of 4% levied on tourist restaurants and hotels will be reduced to 1%.

The 5% tax on the bills of domestic telephone subscribers will be suspended.

The 5% tax on PUB bills of households in excess of $40 will be reduced to 2%.

The 5% entertainments duty on all forms of general entertainment will be suspended.

Cinematograph film hire duty will be suspended. Royalty payments for film hire will be liable to income tax as at present.

Existing duties on petrol and diesel will be adjusted downwards to nullify the effect of the GST. These duties were introduced as a means to control the usage of cars. Government does not intend the introduction of the GST to cause an increase in total taxes payable on these fuels.

The import duties on cars, taxis, motorcycles, and buses will be reduced to nullify the effect of the GST. Like duties on petrol, these were introduced as part of a package of measures to control car ownership and road congestion. Government does not intend the introduction of the GST to result in cars paying higher total taxes.

Duties on tobacco, alcohol and gambling will, however, not be reduced when the GST is introduced.

The revenue loss from the changes in existing indirect taxes is estimated to be $162 million per annum.

## ADDITIONAL REBATES AND OFFSETS

ADDITIONAL REBATES AND OFFSETS

The White Paper stated that most households, including most lower income households, will be better off after the GST is introduced. For nearly all households earning at least $1,500 per month, the combination of personal income tax reductions and rebates, plus the property tax rebate, will be sufficient to offset the GST. However, households earning below $1,500 do not pay sufficient income tax for these tax reductions to offset in full the GST they will pay. To ensure that they too are not worse off, the Government will implement a package of additional rebates to offset the GST. The rebates will be largest at the beginning, when households are still adjusting to the new tax, and will taper off over time as incomes rise.

According to the 1990 census, there are 195,000 households earning less than $1,500 per month in Singapore. (See Appendices (Cols. 607 - 610) C and D) 90% of them stay in HDB flats. 125,000 or 64% of them are in 1, 2, and 3-room HDB flats. Government will therefore use rebates on rentals for 1 and 2-room flats, and rebates on Service and

Conservancy (S&C) charges for 1, 2, and 3-room flats, as the main mechanism to assist low income households. The Government will also increase S&C subsidies to Town Councils to offset the GST payable on S&C charges.

Appendices - HOUSEHOLDS EARNING BELOW $1,500 PER MONTH BY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING (NUMBER), STATUS OF HOUSEHOLDS EARNING LESS THAN $1,500 PER MONTH (Cols. 607 - 610)

Another 55,000 or 28% of the low income families are owner-occupiers of larger HDB flats, shophouses, terrace houses and semi-detached houses and small bungalows. They will benefit from the property tax rebate for owner-occupied properties outlined earlier.

The remaining 20,000 families earning below $1,500 per month are tenants in old shophouses, old walk-up private flats, or owner-occupiers in attap and zinc-roofed houses. They form only 3% of the total number of households in Singapore. However, they are too diverse a group to be reached by a single rebate or subsidy mechanism. Instead, the Government will work through the Citizens' Consultative Committees (CCCs) who are in close touch with the ground to administer a CCC assistance scheme for families needing help to cope with the GST.

In addition, Government will increase several grant schemes to meet the needs of specific groups. It will increase the Edusave grant from $50 per child to $100 per child, to help families with school-age children. It will raise Public Assistance rates to help destitute households. It will also raise the Singapore Allowance, to help Government retirees on low pensions cope with the GST.

## Rental Rebates

Rental Rebates

There are 61,000 HDB rental premises, of which over 83% are 1 and 2-room flats. We will grant rental rebates to tenants of 1 and 2-room rental HDB flats who are Singapore citizens, as follows:

(a) For 1-room tenants: a rental rebate of $16 per month for the first year, declining by $1 a year to $12 per month in the fifth year.

(b) For 2-room tenants: a rental rebate of $12 per month for the first year, declining by $1 a year to $8 per month in the fifth year.

The cost over the 5 years averages $7 million per annum.

## Rebates for Service and Conservancy Charges

Rebates for Service and Conservancy Charges

Singapore citizens staying in 1, 2 and 3- room HDB flats will enjoy rebates on their S&C charges over a period of 5 years. Specifically:

(a) For 1-room flat dwellers: $12 per month for the first year, declining by $1 a year to $8 per month in the fifth year.

(b) For 2-room flat dwellers: $11 per month for the first year, declining by $1 a year to $7 per month in the fifth year.

(c) For 3-room flat dwellers: $8 per month for the first year, declining by $1 a year to $4 per month in the fifth year. The cost is estimated at $24 million per annum over the 5 years.

## Offseting GST Payable on S&C Charges

Offseting GST Payable on S&C Charges

Households staying in HDB flats will have to pay GST on their S&C charges, as S&C charges are for a service like other goods and services which households consume. In order for the GST not to raise S&C charges, Government will increase the subvention to Town Councils to offset the GST payable on the S&C charges. The amount of subvention given will depend on the S&C charges collections from each Town Council. This will benefit all HDB residential flat dwellers. The cost is estimated at $9 million per annum.

## Edusave grant

Edusave grant

The Edusave grant is currently $50 per annum per pupil. To help families with children defray any increases in educational costs due to GST, Government will increase the Edusave grant per pupil to $100 per annum from 1994. As mentioned earlier, to do this the Government will double the Edusave Endowment Fund to $2 billion. The increased grant will more than offset the GST payable on school books and other miscellaneous school items. It will also make the offsets fairer between big and small families, as families with more children who incur higher household expenses and pay more GST will also obtain more Edusave grants.

## Increase in Public Assistance

Increase in Public Assistance

Public Assistance is currently given to aged destitutes and those certified medically unfit for work, widows or deserted wives with young dependent children, and orphans. The amount given ranges from $150 per month for a single-person household to $430 per month for a 1-adult and 3-children household. To help this group offset the GST on their monthly consumption items, we will increase the amount of Public Assistance by between $5 per month for a single-person household to $15 per month for a 4-person household. This translates into a 3 to 5% increase in the Public Assistance for the various household compositions. Details will be released by the Ministry of Community Development.

## Increase in Singapore Allowance

Increase in Singapore Allowance

A special allowance is given to pensioners whose pension is less than $850 per month. The Singapore Allowance is the difference between the $850 and the individual's pension, subject to a limit of $100 per month. As at 31st March 1992, there were 16,473 pensioners of whom 9,858 or 60% receive this allowance. From 1 April 1993, we will increase the maximum allowance by $30 per month to $130 per month, and the specified pension level by $50 from $850 to $900 per month. This will be more than the GST payable by these individuals when they spend their pensions. Cost is estimated at around $4 million per year.

## Grants to CCCs

Grants to CCCs

The rebates on HDB rentals and S&C charges, the property tax rebate, the increases in Edusave grants, Public Assistance and the Singapore Allowance will cover 90% of the households with income below $1,500. Most pensioners and retirees will also be covered by one or other of these schemes. The remaining 10% or 20,000 households are a small but diverse group. Not all of them are necessarily poor. Some own significant amount of property, or have accumulated more than enough savings for their needs. Some old folks are supported by their children, who will benefit from the tax cuts and other rebates. It is difficult to design a single scheme of Government

assistance to target precisely those who need help. We need a more sensitive mechanism to distinguish those who genuinely need help to cope with the GST from those who can manage on their own.

The Citizens' Consultative Committees (CCCs) provide such a mechanism. Being grassroots organisations, the CCCs are in constant touch with the ground. They are well-placed to identify which households in their constituencies need help, and what type of help will be most useful. The CCCs can work with other grassroots organisations like Residents' Committees in this task. They can then channel help to whomever needs it, including pensioners and retirees not living in HDB flats and not owning private property, or households which for some reason do not benefit from the offsets that I have listed above.

The Ministry of Community Development will budget $3 million per year for CCCs to operate this assistance scheme. This should be sufficient to cover all the estimated 20,000 low-income households not covered by the HDB and other schemes, even though probably not all of them will need help. The $3-million budget can be increased if necessary. The CCCs will evaluate needy cases who approach them for help. They will have the discretion to decide whom to help, and how much help to give. The amount per household will usually not need to exceed $200 per annum. This will resolve the specific problems of retirees and non-HDB residents arising from the GST.

It is important to be clear that the CCC scheme is not meant to solve all the financial problems of poor families, or to give general assistance to households in distress. Other welfare schemes already exist to help poor families. The CCC scheme is designed specifically to offset the GST that poor families will incur, to the extent that the package of other rebates does not make up for the GST they have to pay. The CCCs will have to administer it with this objective in mind.

## Timing

Timing

The property tax rebate, the increases in Public Assistance and the Singapore

Allowance, and the additional subsidies for Town Council S&C charges will continue indefinitely. However the S&C charges rebates, rental rebates and CCC grant scheme will operate in the first instance for 5 years. They are meant to be transitional measures to help households tide over the introduction of the GST. Therefore the amounts of the S&C charges and rental rebates will diminish over time, although even in the fifth year the total package of assistance provided will be more than sufficient to offset the GST payable by most low-income households. During these 5 years, incomes should grow in real terms by 5 to 7% per year. This will be more than sufficient to offset the 3% GST, which should lead only to a one-off increase of prices of around 3% in the year of introduction. Higher incomes will reduce the need for these special schemes. After 5 years we will re-assess the situation to decide whether to continue the package in a modified form.

The Government has undertaken that nearly all households will be better off after the GST is introduced than before. This offset package fulfils this promise. However, the Government cannot promise that households whose incomes are presently low, and who therefore pay little or no tax, will never pay more tax than they now do, even after their incomes rise as a result of economic growth. The tax burden has to be spread as broadly and fairly as possible, so that it will weigh lightly both on individuals and on the economy as a whole. This is indeed one of the purposes of introducing the GST.

## Gains and Losses

Gains and Losses

Appendix E (Cols. 611 - 612) summarises the benefits to specific households by dwelling and income groups per year in the first and fifth year. Appendix F (Cols. 613 - 618) gives the net change of expenditures for lower-income typical households before and after the GST is introduced. It confirms that most households will be better off after the GST is introduced than before.

Appendix E - NET BENEFITS FOR DIFFERENT TYPES OF FLATS, (Cols. 611 - 612)

Appendix F - ANNUAL ACCOUNTS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF FLATS (Cols. 613 - 618)

Appendix G (Cols. 619 - 620) summarises Government's revenue position as a result of all the tax changes and offsets against the revenue collected from the GST. It shows that the revenue loss from the whole package amounts to $1,104 million. If we exclude the transient items, the total loss is still $1,070 million. As the GST collection is estimated at $921 million, the Government will have a reduced revenue of $183 million revenue per year during the initial 5 years. However, in the long run, I expect the package to be revenue neutral, because with economic growth consumption will increase and so will tax collections.

Appendix G - TOTAL REVENUE LOSS TO GOVERNMENT OF OFFSETS (Cols. 619 - 620)

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

Mr Speaker, Sir, we have seen our economic growth rate levelling down over the last three years. Although the outlook for 1993 is somewhat better, for the longer term we need to change the orientation of our people towards venturing abroad if we are to continue enjoying high economic growth. Government will on its part do whatever is possible to encourage, facilitate and be a partner of an outward economic expansion.

The focus of public expenditures will continue to be on investments which will enhance our economic performance. Our tax changes are designed to promote overseas investments as well as clear the

way for the foreign earnings to be repatriated. When the GST is implemented and the tax reform is in place, we will become more competitive.

Our challenge is to claim a bigger piece of that fast-growing economic pie in the region. I am confident that we have what is needed to meet that challenge.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move. [Applause].

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1993 to 31st March, 1994." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 86, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed on what day, Dr Hu?

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Monday, 8th March 1993, Sir.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 8th March, 1993." - [Mr Wong Kan Seng].

Adjourned accordingly at Ten minutes to Six o'clock pm to Monday, 8th March, 1993.
