# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1995-03-01
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker);

---

## Sitting resumed at 5.05 pm

## Sitting resumed at 5.05 pm

Sitting resumed at 5.05 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1995 to 31st March, 1996.

## PART I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

PART I - REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

## ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1994

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1994

Mr Speaker, Sir, the Singapore economy grew by 10.1% in 1994. Growth was broad-based and all major sectors did well. The manufacturing sector grew by 12.9% with strong growth across a broad spectrum of industries. Growth in the financial and services sector was lower than in 1993 because of significantly lower stockmarket turnover.

The commerce and transport & communications sectors turned in creditable performances on the back of strong regional growth and stronger trade and investment linkages in the region. The construction sector saw double-digit growth due to the strong pipeline of contracts awarded in 1992 and 1993.

Inflation remained low, at 3.6%, as domestic cost pressures were contained by good productivity growth while imported inflation was mitigated by the strength of the Singapore dollar. The introduction of the 3% Goods and Services Tax had a smaller than expected impact on inflation due to keen competition in the retail sector.

The two years of double-digit growth in 1993 and 1994 were underpinned by strong productivity growth which averaged 6.0% in the two years. As a result, the Unit Labour Cost index for the manufacturing sector declined in 1993 and 1994.

## ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 1995

ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 1995

The external environment remains favourable, though some caution is called for. World capital markets have recently been volatile, due to concerns over US interest rates, the devaluation of the Mexican peso and the earthquake in Kobe.

The industrialised countries as a group are likely to see stronger growth but lower inflation. The Asian economies are expected to continue to enjoy robust growth. The generally favourable external environment means continued strong demand for Singapore products and services. The latest survey of business expectations show that industrialists and businessmen in the services sector are optimistic about prospects up to June 1995.

However, following two years of strong growth, domestic costs are likely to rise. Increased cost pressures would have some negative impact on our growth prospects in 1995. In addition, the dominant electronics industry is highly volatile and growth could slow down significantly at short notice. Recent events in the international scene have also had some dampening effect on stockmarkets world-wide.

After taking into account these factors, the Ministry of Trade and Industry has revised its forecast for 1995 slightly downwards, from 8-9% to 7.5-8.5%.

## LAYING THE FOUNDATIONS FOR SUSTAINED GROWTH

LAYING THE FOUNDATIONS FOR SUSTAINED GROWTH

I will now turn to a longer-term issue: how we can lay the foundations for sustained growth into the next century.

## Combining Economic Growth With Social Progress

Combining Economic Growth With Social Progress

Singapore has successfully combined rapid economic growth with equitable income distribution. Real economic growth averaged 8.4% per year between 1960 and 1994. Between 1980 and 1990, real household income for the bottom 20% of households rose by an average of 8.9% per year, faster than the 7.9% for the middle 60% of households and 6.4% for the top 20% of households. More up-to-date figures from the Household Expenditure Survey show that, for the period 1982/83 to 1992/93, real household income for the bottom 20% has also kept pace with those of the middle 60% and top 20%.

At the personal level, Singaporeans can see for themselves how their standard of living has improved. The ownership of telephones, TV sets and refrigerators is near universal, and more than three-quarters of households have washing machines or VCRs. One-third own air-conditioners, 31% have cars and 20% have personal computers. These ownership rates are high, by any international standards.

Singapore's record of widespread social progress and equitable income distribution is partly the result of the development process. Economists have found that income distribution tends to improve as an economy develops because unemployment falls rapidly and the fruits of economic growth are shared among a larger group of citizens. This has been the experience of most East Asian economies, including Singapore, but it is not universal or automatic. Wrong-headed policies, like populist subsidies and restrictions on economic transactions, can worsen income distribution and impede growth.

In Singapore, the Government has played a key role in improving the standard of living of all Singaporeans through mass programmes in public housing, primary health and education. The effects of these on the well-being of Singaporeans are clear. For example, 86% of our population live in public housing, which is of a standard far higher than public housing projects in other countries. Newer HDB housing estates like Bishan and Pasir Ris are comparable to private housing in Singapore. Unlike other countries, the public housing programme in Singapore is a social leveller. Professionals and workers live in the same HDB estates and share amenities.

The public health programme and affluence have significantly reduced infant mortality in Singapore. We now have the lowest infant mortality rate in the world - 5 per 1,000 live births, as low as Japan and Sweden. Almost all our children attend school and more than half of them enter Polytechnic or universities.

## Challenges for the Future

Challenges for the Future

In the next stage of economic development, we will face different challenges. In the 1960s, the priority was to create jobs, provide housing and build new schools. In the 1990s and beyond, we will face new issues. I will outline two key ones, viz, the entry of new players into the international economy and the development of a middle class society in Singapore.

First, the entry into the world trading and production system of large economies like China, India, Indonesia and rapidly growing ones like Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam will alter the world economic structure. It has been estimated that by the year 2020, 7 of the 10 largest economies in the world will be in Asia, viz, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Korea, Thailand and Taiwan ("The Global Economy", survey in The Economist, 1st October 1994.).

The entry of new players into the world economy will raise average income levels worldwide, but it will also change the distribution of income, both between countries and within individual countries.

The more developed countries will increasingly be forced to specialise in higher value added activities, leading to greater demand for skilled workers who are in short supply worldwide. Demand for low-skilled workers will be met by less developed countries which concentrate in more labour-intensive activities. However, the supply of unskilled workers is far higher than the supply of skilled workers. As a result, in many countries incomes will rise faster for skilled workers than for unskilled workers. The reason goes back to the fundamental laws of demand and supply. Because the number of unskilled workers is so much larger, an increase in demand will first reduce unemployment or under-employment before it leads to rising wages. In contrast, as skilled workers are scarce, increased demand will lead to higher wages. Putting these two divergent trends together, it is not hard to imagine a world where income distribution could become more unequal.

This is already happening in some developed countries. In the US and the UK, wage differentials between those with higher education and those without have widened in the last 10-15 years. Closer to home, Hong Kong has faced this problem since the mid-1980s. With keen competition from China in labour-intensive manufacturing, the Hong Kong manufacturing workforce has shrunk from about 1 million to only 600,000 whereas the workforce in Hong Kong-owned factories in southern China is estimated to be 3-4

million. Accompanying this massive shift has been a depression of wages in the Hong Kong manufacturing sector, particularly in lower-end industries, like textiles and toys.

It is therefore not surprising that there is deep concern in the developed countries, especially Europe, that East Asia_s growth will be at the expense of their workers and their social stability. Some groups in the developed countries are advocating protectionism in various guises, including social and environmental protection.

Singapore, as a small and open economy, cannot insulate itself from larger global trends. Without natural resources or a large hinterland or domestic rural sector to fall back on, we cannot afford to pay ourselves higher than world market rates or keep alive activities which are no longer viable.

Countries better-endowed than ourselves have tried and failed to do this. What they have achieved is to transfer the problem from the labour market to the state treasury while delaying much-needed structural adjustments to their economies. The EU countries have run budget deficits to finance generous welfare states and unemployment benefits. The result is that public debt has mounted, unemployment is at a record high of 11% and labour costs are uncompetitive. Future generations of European workers and citizens will have to pay the cost of past fiscal deficits, either through a high debt servicing burden or through higher inflation if governments choose to inflate away their domestic debts.

Singapore will need to address these issues head-on. I will elaborate on possible solutions later in my speech.

Let me now turn to the second challenge, that of Singapore becoming a more middle-class society. Economic growth and improvements in education have enabled most Singaporeans to join the middle class. We are close to achieving our target of 60% of each cohort entering polytechnic or university. In

twenty years time, up to 30% of the workforce will have either polytechnic or university education compared with only 15% today.

The Singapore economy must stay competitive to create jobs for these ambitious and well-trained people. We must regionalise successfully so that our best and brightest will have a bigger pie to compete for. To cap the supply of university and polytechnic graduates is an unworkable and self-defeating alternative. It will slow growth and depress earnings for all, including the graduates, who will have few job opportunities in a stagnant economy.

At the same time, the larger number of better-educated people will increase demand for the traditional trappings of middle-class living like owning a car and a private house, thus hitting against a fixed supply of land. Aspirations could run ahead of our ability to meet them in the conventional way.

## Meeting the New Challenges

Meeting the New Challenges

The trends I have outlined have implications for how we need to manage our economy to ensure many more years of economic prosperity and social stability. There are three key areas in which we need to devote attention. They are: preparing Singaporeans to meet the challenges of the global economy, providing maximum incentives to able Singaporeans to create wealth for the nation, and building a more cohesive society.

## Preparing Singaporeans for challenges of the global economy

Preparing Singaporeans for challenges of the global economy

In the new global economy, competition will get keener and the pace of change will become faster. No country can afford to sit back while the competition passes by. Technology is pushing the pace of restructuring. Companies and countries which cannot cope with the fast pace will be left behind.

In Singapore, we have taken steps to meet the demands of a modern economy

by investing heavily in education, training and re-training. Over the years, we have increased the proportion of young people going into tertiary education. In 1980, 19% of our young people were admitted to university, polytechnic or the then Vocational and Industrial Training Board. In 1994, the proportion was 71%, with 19% going to university, 35% to polytechnic and 17% to the Institute of Technical Education (ITE). We aim to raise the proportion of those with post-secondary training from the 71% in 1994 to 85%, broken down into 20% going to university, 40% to polytechnic and 25% to ITE. We will achieve these targets by the year 2000.

We have increased enrolments in institutions of higher learning without sacrificing quality. Each year, the "O" and "A" level results, which have international standing, have improved. Achievement in English and Mathematics is high and improving.

With up to 85% of each cohort receiving post-secondary training in the Institute of Technical Education, the polytechnic and the universities by the year 2000, nearly all Singaporeans will be equipped with the means to compete in the global economy.

But being well-educated only offers the worker a place at the starting line. Whether he completes the race and wins a prize depends on whether he can adapt to the changes in the economy. Experience from the developed countries shows that although unskilled blue-collar workers have borne the brunt of global competition in the developed countries, even white-collar and management staff are not immune to changes.

White-collar jobs in data-processing, insurance claims processing and accounting can be done offshore, in the Philippines, China, India or Ireland. The restructuring of the American corporate sector in recent years was accompanied by "de-layering" of corporate hierarchies and the loss of many middle management jobs. The rise of a new class of "temporary professionals" in the US is a sign that even professionals are not immune to fundamental changes in the global labour market.

The key to keeping ourselves relevant to the rest of the world is flexibility. Workers need to be able to learn new skills and knowledge and to adapt to new processes, new machines and perhaps even new employers to retain life-long employability. This will mean a concerted effort by the workers themselves, unions, employers and the Government. Although recent retrenchment episodes by MNCs have raised some concern, it is reassuring that the retrenched workers easily found replacement jobs. Such restructuring of the manufacturing sector is a continuing necessity if we are to upgrade. So far, our economy has been able to adjust flexibly to new demands. We will need to maintain this flexibility even more as we enter the new global economic race.

## Giving maximum incentive for wealth creation

Giving maximum incentive for wealth creation

As we equip Singaporeans in general with the skills to compete effectively, we need to pay attention to those among them who are most able to create wealth for all. These able people command a premium in the world market, and they can easily work and live overseas. The Singapore economy needs them to manage our companies and lead our workers to win in the global economic race.

Economic competition is a team game like football, but each team needs its fair share of star strikers like Fandi Ahmad to score the goals and bring success to the team. It is essential to pay special attention to them, to nurture them so that they can give of their best and to reward them handsomely when they do well. The same applies to captains of industry, entrepreneurs and skilled professionals.

Talent is scarce in Singapore. We should identify our best and brightest early, and invest in their education, for example, by setting up autonomous and independent schools, stretching them in the Gifted Education Programme or by giving them the best possible university education here or abroad.

Given the intense global competition, we must also be able to satisfy their aspirations for a better life in their many facets, ranging from the strictly material like owning a car to psychological and emotional factors like identifying Singapore as home and seeing a future for their children here.

The Government will refine and adjust economic incentives to maintain Singapore_s competitiveness. One major aspect will be our fiscal policy. Experience has shown us the considerable benefits of keeping the overall Government burden on the economy and the individual low.

In terms of tax revenue like individual and corporate income tax, property tax and consumption tax, Singapore_s tax burden is lower than the major industrial countries. We are comparable to the other Asian Newly Industrialising Economies (NIEs) except Hong Kong, and the other ASEAN countries. This is shown in Table 1 (Cols. 115 - 116). However, Government revenue is boosted by the use of fiscal measures to allocate scarce resources, like the COE system and levy on foreign workers. Our overall level of Government tax and non-tax revenue is around 22%, slightly above other Asian countries who are at 20%.

Table 1 - TAX AND NON-TAX REVENUE OF SELECTED COUNTRIES (Cols. 115 - 116)

The Government is studying possible changes to its fiscal policies to make the economy more competitive, and to strengthen the incentive for businesses and individuals to venture, succeed, and enjoy the fruits of their enterprise. It will keep the overall burden of Government levies on successful Singaporeans as low as possible, taking into account both income taxes as well as other levies like the foreign maid levy and revenues from land transport policies, including COEs. Our strong fiscal position, built up through prudent management over many years, gives us some leeway to do this. As the Prime Minister said in his New Year message, taken as a whole, Singapore must offer its citizens a quality of life, abundant opportunities and a future for their children that will make them want to stay.

Apart from adjusting fiscal policies, the Government has tried and will try to meet the aspirations of the talented in more creative ways. While we cannot promise everyone a piece of landed property, we will set aside enough land to develop different types of housing to cater to Singaporeans_ needs. We will also invest in public transport to make it a more attractive alternative to car ownership. We will continue to improve traffic management, introduce new measures to control car usage and make heavy investments in roads to help more Singaporeans own cars while controlling congestion.

Whatever innovative solutions we can come up with to ameliorate the problems of being a small country, Singaporeans must realise that there is a physical limit to how far we can go. The quality of life in Singapore has to be taken as a package. Apart from material rewards, Singapore will offer a vibrant arts scene, a safe home for our children and highly efficient public amenities to make up for the high cost of owning cars and landed property.

## Building a cohesive society

Building a cohesive society

While we encourage our high achievers to do well, we need to instil in them a sense of social obligation to other Singaporeans who are less able to compete. They must feel that Singapore is not merely a place to make money but also a nation and a community within which we bring up our children and provide them with the means to build a better future for themselves. In this endeavour, all Singaporeans whether rich or poor must feel as one and contribute in every way he can. All will enjoy the fruits of economic growth but we must accept that some will do better than others. Just as in football, top players are paid more than those who are reserves and play in only a few matches. But if the star players pay no attention to the others, they will stop feeding him balls and he will no longer be able to score any goals.

While we cannot turn back the tide in global competition, we will continue to

strengthen social stability in ways that do not undermine our economic vitality. We will continue to evolve new ways to meet the aspirations of all Singaporeans while balancing economic imperatives with social needs.

So long as we do not lose sight of the challenges ahead of us and put in place rational policies to deal with them, I am confident that Singapore will enter the 21st century as an economically dynamic and socially cohesive nation.

## PART II - THE FY95 BUDGET

PART II - THE FY95 BUDGET

Mr Speaker, Sir, I will now move on to the Budget for the next financial year.

## EXPENDITURE POLICY

EXPENDITURE POLICY

Our expenditure policy is designed to support our economic and social objectives. The FY95 budget's spending priorities are on education, infrastructure, affordable healthcare, quality public housing, and national security. To meet expectations for a better quality of life, and to develop a more robust, well-balanced and cohesive society, more funds will also be made available for the arts, sports, recreational facilities, community development and schemes to advance social cohesion.

The size of Government will continue to be contained so as to provide the private sector with more resources, but care will be taken not to compromise the quality and level of public services. At the same time, we will seek new ways to improve our systems of financial and personnel management.

Our budgetary policy is to keep total expenditure within operating revenues. This policy, coupled with buoyant revenues linked to strong economic growth in recent years has enabled Government to keep the budget in surplus since FY88. We have been able to set aside substantial sums each year to reserves without dampening economic growth or foregoing productive investments.

Budgetary surpluses generated in the past have enabled us to start programmes like Edusave, Medifund and CPF-SOTUS. Better than expected economic growth has allowed the build-up of Edusave to its present level of $3 billion since its inauguration 3 years ago. This is much faster than the planned build-up rate of $1 billion initial capital and $500 million annually over 8 years. As a healthy budget surplus is also forecast for FY94, I am pleased to say that the FY94 contribution will be doubled to $1 billion. This earlier build-up of Edusave will allow students to participate in a larger variety of educational programmes to maximise their potential.

Medifund balances presently stand at $300 million. Medifund is a scheme to help those who cannot afford basic medical care, even with the help of their relatives. Unlike Edusave, there is therefore no reason to accelerate its build-up unless income flows from the Medifund prove insufficient. As this has not been the case, I do not propose to accelerate the build-up of Medifund. A transfer of $100 million will therefore be made to Medifund in FY95 as planned.

## CPF Share Ownership Top-Up Scheme (SOTUS)

CPF Share Ownership Top-Up Scheme (SOTUS)

We will also continue to use budget surpluses to enhance the assets of Singaporeans through the CPF share ownership top-up scheme or SOTUS. As promised in last year's Budget Speech, we will implement a second CPF SOTUS this year as part of our aim to make Singaporeans a share owning society. Under SOTUS-II, Government will credit $300 into the CPF account of every Singapore citizen aged 21 and above provided he or his employer has credited at least $750 into his account between 1 March 1994 and 31 August 1995. Members who pay in less will get a prorated contribution from Government. There are still 6 months to go before the qualifying period expires. Government has set aside $380 million in FY95 to pay for the top-up.

## Pension Fund

Pension Fund

Last year, I informed the House that a Pension Fund would be set up to explicitly recognise Government's pension liabilities and to make provision for it as part of prudent financial management. Legislation to set up the Fund has already been passed. The Fund will accordingly be established on 1st April 1995 and all future pension obligations will be met from the Fund.

Our pension liabilities have been estimated based on actuarial studies. To set up the Fund, a sum of $9.6 billion will be transferred from existing balances in the Consolidated Fund to the Pension Fund to meet past service and medical liabilities of pensioners and serving officers. This is so that current and future tax payers need not bear the burden of building up the Pension Fund in respect of these past service and medical liabilities. On-going service liabilities for serving pensionable officers will be funded by an annual budgetary contribution to the Pension Fund. This is currently estimated at 17% of pensionable emoluments. It will be reflected as part of Expenditure on Manpower or EOM in the Expenditure Estimates, to which I will now turn.

## THE FY95 EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES

THE FY95 EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES

Total operating and development expenditure in FY95 is expected to amount to $18.5 billion, which is 16.2% of GDP, up from 14.8% in FY94. The increase is due entirely to higher development expenditure, which rises from 4.4% of GDP in FY94 to 5.9% in FY95. Operating expenditure on the other hand will remain at 10.4% of GDP.

Total expenditure in FY95 is about 21% higher than in FY94. The largest share of the budget will continue to be allocated to social and community services, which will take up 38%. Education accounts for more than half of this share, with the rest going into healthcare services, subsidies on public housing, improvements to the environment, community development and promotion of the arts. The second largest share, at 36% of the budget, will be taken up by national security, including

defence. The third largest share, at nearly 16% of the budget, will go to economic and infrastructural development, including transportation, infrastructure, research & development, promotion of the regionalisation effort and inward investments, and other infrastructural and civil engineering projects.

Let me now elaborate on the FY95 expenditure proposals.

## Operating Expenditure

Operating Expenditure

Operating expenditure encompasses expenditure on manpower and other operating expenditure of ministries, and grants-in-aid to Government-funded statutory boards and other organisations. In FY95, operating expenditure is expected to be $11.8 billion, a 10% increase over FY94. Defence spending will account for the largest share, at nearly 45% of the total. Education will take up the second largest share at 23% of the total.

Expenditure on Manpower or EOM will go up by $291 million or 11% to $2.8 billion. The increase includes a $133 million contribution to the Pension Fund for on-going service liabilities mentioned earlier. The remaining increase is to cover normal salary increments and for filling vacancies. Increased workloads of Ministries will have to be accommodated through productivity improvements where this is possible without affecting the level of service.

Other Operating Expenditure or OOE will increase by $1 billion or nearly 20% to $6.6 billion. In addition to higher workload and general cost increases, additional funds will be required for larger provisions for the armed forces. Part of the increase is also to pay for maintenance of new installations such as the flue gas cleaning system in incinerator plants, and more services being contracted out. Higher provisions are also made for teaching bursaries, scholarships, child care subsidies and the Small Families Improvement Scheme. Funds are also needed for the Malay tertiary tuition fee managed

by Mendaki, setting up new overseas missions and technical assistance to third world countries.

Grants-in-Aid to Government-funded statutory boards and other organisations including restructured hospitals will amount to $2.4 billion, up 7% from FY94. Schools and tertiary institutions will need larger operating grants to cater for a 11,000 increase in students and to pay for more teachers and administrative staff. Higher operating and rental subventions will also go to restructured hospitals and Voluntary Welfare Organisations for providing subsidised medical care. The Singapore Tourist Promotion Board will need additional subvention to compensate for a reduction in the cess rate from 4% to 1% with the introduction of GST. A new grant will be given to the Trade Development Board to cover its operating deficit as the revenues from its sale of various quotas are expected to decline.

## Development Expenditure

Development Expenditure

Development expenditure is projected to reach $6.7 billion in FY95, up by 46% from FY94. This is 36% of total expenditure, higher than the 30% spent in FY94.

Development spending on education will continue to focus on building new schools and tertiary institutions or improving existing ones. Major on-going projects include the construction of Temasek Polytechnic, the upgrading of NUS campus and the construction of staff quarters at Kent Vale to house NUS lecturers. As computers have become increasingly important as educational tools, more money will be spent on upgrading computer equipment and facilities in schools and tertiary institutions.

The near doubling of healthcare-related spending is mainly for the construction and fitting out of Eastern General Hospital, the new Kandang Kerbau Hospital and Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Phase III of National University Hospital, and the combined Institute of Health and National Dental Centre.

The Government is committed to providing Singapore with an efficient and convenient public transport system

and substantial funds are provided for transport-related expenditures, including the continued development and extension of the road network. The MRT extension to Woodlands is progressing well. Feasibility studies will be carried out on a new Northeast Sector MRT Line and an MRT extension to Changi Airport. Pilot studies will also be made to ascertain whether Light Rail Transit (LRT) feeder systems can be used to complement and extend the main MRT network. The development of an Electronic Road Pricing System to control road usage is on schedule.

The capital subsidy to public housing is expected to be $719 million, almost 67% higher than in FY94. The upgrading of HDB flats, including interim upgrading to improve the older estates, will take up the bulk of the allocation. Funds will also be needed for subsidising new flats and paying for the discount on the sale of HDB tenanted shops and rental flats. Provision will also be made for specific works and other improvements to existing HDB estates.

As part of the measures to improve the environment, open sewage treatment works will be covered to control odour emission, an offshore sanitary landfill will be built at Pulau Semakau for dumping refuse, and the drainage infrastructure will be upgraded and extended. Land reclamation works are currently underway at Changi East, Tuas, Buran Darat, and the cluster of petrochemical islands in the south-west to form Jurong Island. Projects to promote community cohesion and sports include the building and renovation of community centres, upgrading of residents' committee centres, redevelopment of the Outward Bound School, and upgrading of the Singapore Sports Council facilities. Funds will also go towards providing welfare homes for the aged and facilities for disabled and low income families. Other infrastructural projects include the development of waterworks and the relocation of the Queenstown Gasholder.

Research & Development (R&D) is critical for raising our industrial competitiveness and for attracting higher value added investments into Singapore. We

will therefore raise Government-funded R&D by nearly 30% to $368 million, which is slightly more than 0.3% of GDP. The focus of R&D spending will continue to be on economically-relevant R&D, which is driven by the National Science & Technology Board (NSTB) through an allocation of $298 million. Another $50 million will be provided for the Academic Research Fund to enable academic research to be carried out by various institutions under the Ministry of Education. As a step towards keeping doctors abreast of medical advances and to develop more cost-effective methods of medical care, medical research will be stepped up under the supervision of the newly set-up National Medical Research Council. A sum of $20 million will be made available for this purpose.

To promote our regionalisation drive, funds are allocated to the Economic Development Board (EDB) for venture capital funds to assist local SMEs to take advantage of regional opportunities. Funds will also be made available for EDB to make strategic investments and to assist local SMEs through various economic development schemes.

## MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE

MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE

I will now update the House on what is being done by Government to achieve greater accountability and control over public expenditures.

## Budgeting for Results

Budgeting for Results

Last year, I informed the House that we have embarked on a process of financial management reform called Budgeting for Results or BFR for short. Under BFR, funds are allocated and greater managerial autonomies granted to a Government organisation in exchange for clearly defined pre-specified outputs. By making public servants more focused on the outputs to be delivered and more customer-oriented through BFR, we hope to enhance the performance of the public sector. BFR will be an improvement over the existing budgeting system, which is largely input driven and puts little

pressure on ministries to review their outputs or requirements or to reallocate resources between activities. There are also currently no clear performance targets nor incentives for staff to be more productive in the use of public funds.

Fundamental to the BFR process is the identification of output and performance targets. Departments have already been asked to do this. Clearly defined outputs and performance targets should in turn lead to greater accountability and value for money from the organisation.

Several concepts are being worked out in connection with the implementation of BFR. They relate mainly to the financial, procurement, and personnel managerial flexibilities that can be devolved to departments under BFR. To foster entrepreneurial behaviour, we are also exploring the feasibility of allowing departments to fund their operations from receipts and to charge other departments for their services. Once we are ready with some workable arrangements, these would be implemented in selected ministries and departments.

## PART III - REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

PART III - REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

Mr Speaker, Sir, let me turn next to the fiscal position and the proposed tax changes.

A healthy budget surplus is forecast for FY94 as revenue collections were buoyant because of strong economic growth. The outlook for growth in 1995 remains strong at 7.5-8.5%, which is still above our medium term growth range of 6-7%. Revenue collection in FY95 is estimated at $24.3 billion. With operating and development expenditures budgeted at $18.5 billion, a surplus of $5.8 billion is anticipated.

A comprehensive GST of 3% was introduced in April last year as part of a major move to reform our tax structure. As the GST was not intended to increase overall tax collections, its introduction was accompanied by a package of tax cuts and rebates to offset GST revenues. The

GST revenue collection was originally estimated at $960 million and the value of the GST offset package at $1.2 billion. Due to the unexpectedly high economic growth, both the GST collection and GST offset package have since been revised upwards to $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion respectively. Hence, overall, the introduction of GST will remain revenue negative. I would like to reiterate that Government is committed to making GST revenue negative in the short run and revenue neutral in the long run.

As 1994 was another successful year, there is scope for returning some of the budget surpluses to the economy. However, the route chosen will have to take into account the fact that the economy is entering a third year of very strong growth and some care is needed to avoid over heating.

On corporate tax, our medium term goal is to bring the rate down to 25%. However, there is no need to lower the tax rate again this year to further stimulate an already vibrant economy, so soon after the 3% cut which came into effect in Year of Assessment 1994. Instead, we will fine-tune our tax system to support regionalisation and high value-added economic activities. In line with Government's plan to promote fund management and investment banking activities, additional incentives to enhance their development will be introduced. We will also continue to review various taxes and duties, such as property tax and stamp duties, to lower business costs and improve business efficiency.

Personal income taxes were substantially reduced in Year of Assessment 1994 to accompany the introduction of GST. As a result, 71% of individuals no longer pay income tax. There is hence no need to make significant changes to the personal income tax structure this year, so soon after the last revision. Instead, other routes will be used to reward individuals for their contributions towards a successful year.

Let me now deal with the tax changes for companies.

## TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

## 5% Tax on Incremental Profits from High Value-Added Financial Activities

5% Tax on Incremental Profits from High Value-Added Financial Activities

The rapid growth of economies in the Asia Pacific has opened up new business opportunities for the Singapore financial sector. In line with government's efforts to encourage Singapore financial institutions to undertake high value-added activities, various tax incentives have been put in place over the years. These incentives have been successful.

Nevertheless, our financial institutions need to continue to strengthen their capabilities in fund management and investment banking if Singapore is to position itself to play a key role in servicing the expanding financial needs of the East Asian economies.

To further boost fund management, risk management and capital market activities in Singapore, I have decided to grant a concessionary tax rate of 5% on the incremental profits of such activities. With effect from Year of Assessment 1996, the increase in taxable income over the preceding qualifying year from the following activities will be taxed at a concessionary rate of 5%:

i) the managing of funds of at least S$5 billion from foreign investors by Asian Currency Units and Approved Fund Managers;

ii) the underwriting, managing or placing of foreign securities by Asian Currency Units and Approved Securities Companies, if the taxable income from such activities exceeds S$10 million;

iii) the trading of foreign securities by Asian Currency Units and Approved Securities Companies, provided the taxable income from such activities exceeds S$10 million; and

iv) the trading of new futures and options contracts on SIMEX by its members for a period of up to 5 years from the commencement of trading of the new contract on SIMEX. Only the top 20 most active firms will qualify for the 5% tax.

Further details of the scheme will be announced later. The scheme will be effective for 5 years in the first instance and may be reviewed after that.

## Taxation of Unit Trusts

Taxation of Unit Trusts

I have decided to introduce a tax incentive to foster the development of the domestic unit trust industry. For a unit trust granted this tax incentive, all income except Singapore dividends received will no longer be taxed at the level of the unit trust. For distributions made out of income that is not taxed at the trust level, the tax treatment will be as follows:

i) all distributions to non-resident unit holders will be tax exempt.

ii) distributions paid out of gains from disposal of securities to residents other than individuals and partnerships will be taxed. In the case of individuals or partnerships, only 10% will be subject to tax. The remaining 90% will be tax exempt.

iii) distributions of other income such as interest and foreign dividends to resident unit holders will be taxed.

For distributions which are taxable, tax will be withheld by the unit trust at the prevailing corporate tax rate at the time of distribution. As with Singapore dividends, unit holders will be able to claim a credit for the tax withheld at the trust level. This incentive will take effect from Year of Assessment 1996.

The new tax treatment will make it more attractive for individuals to invest in unit trusts. This will boost our domestic unit trust industry, which will in turn help generate greater demand for fund management services and build up fund management expertise in Singapore.

## Tax Deduction for General Provisions made by Banks

Tax Deduction for General Provisions made by Banks

Because of the special role which banks play in the economy, I have allowed general provisions made by banks and merchant banks to be tax deductible with effect from Year of Assessment 1992. Since then, banks and merchant banks

have recorded strong profit growth. While the economic prospects for Singapore and the region are expected to remain good in the foreseeable future, no economy is immune to business cycles. During periods of healthy profit growth, banks and merchant banks should build up their financial reserves to see them through business downturns.

To encourage banks to set aside a greater proportion of their profits as general provisions, I have decided to increase the maximum annual limit on the amount of general provisions eligible for tax deduction. Currently the general provision allowable is the lower of 25% of qualifying profit or 1/4% of qualifying assets. With effect from Year of Assessment 1996, the 1/4% will be increased to 1/2% of qualifying assets. The total amount of general provisions eligible for tax deduction will continue to be limited to 2% of qualifying assets.

## Removing the Present Constraints for Onward Payment of Tax Exempt Dividends Out of Foreign Income

Removing the Present Constraints for Onward Payment of Tax Exempt Dividends Out of Foreign Income

I had earlier introduced a package of incentives to encourage our companies to venture abroad. These incentives have worked well for most companies. At present, a Singapore company does not have to pay any Singapore tax on foreign income received if tax exemption has been granted or the foreign tax credit is equal to or exceeds the Singapore tax payable. Such income is also allowed to be distributed as tax exempt dividends. This is to enable foreign income to flow through to shareholders without double taxation.

Under the existing law, the flow through of tax exempt dividends is limited to two levels of shareholding and subject to a 50% shareholding requirement. There are, however, companies which have found it necessary to form consortiums and set up more complex group corporate structures to venture overseas. In such instances, the current restrictions can result in the

foreign income being subject to double taxation when it is finally distributed to the ultimate shareholders.

To overcome such constraints, I have decided to:

i) extend the follow-through of tax exempt dividends beyond the two levels of shareholders where the 50% shareholding requirement is satisfied. Holding companies at every tier of a group corporate structure will be allowed to onward pay exempt dividends received where the dividends originate from foreign income received in Singapore.

ii) waive the requirement of a 50% shareholding in the dividend-paying company for onward payment of exempt dividends on a case-by-case basis.

These changes will apply to dividends received on or after 1st March 1995.

## Waiver of the 25% Shareholding Requirement for Unilateral Tax Credit to be Given on the Underlying Tax of Foreign Dividends

Waiver of the 25% Shareholding Requirement for Unilateral Tax Credit to be Given on the Underlying Tax of Foreign Dividends

A Singapore company does not have to pay any Singapore tax on dividends derived from investments in countries where the tax rates are comparable to or higher than Singapore, if it holds at least 25% of the share capital of the dividend paying company. The tax credit for foreign dividends received by such company includes the underlying tax, that is, foreign tax on the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

For most investors, the 25% shareholding requirement to qualify for credit of the underlying tax poses no problem. However, there are cases where for valid reasons, the 25% shareholding cannot be achieved. I have therefore decided to waive the 25% shareholding requirement on a case-by-case basis. This will apply to dividends received on or after 1st March 1995.

## Double Tax Deduction for Approved Expenses Incurred in the Promotion of Master Franchising and Master Licensing

Double Tax Deduction for Approved Expenses Incurred in the Promotion of Master Franchising and Master Licensing

To further encourage companies to invest and expand into the region, the Double Tax Deduction scheme for the promotion of Singapore services overseas will be extended to include the promotion of master franchises and master licences overseas.

Approved expenses incurred by companies to promote master franchising and master licensing overseas will be granted double tax deduction. The extension will take effect from 1 Apr 1995 and will be administered by the Trade Development Board.

## Approved Aircraft Leasing Incentive

Approved Aircraft Leasing Incentive

Economic growth in the East Asian region will lead to increased demand for air transport services. Singapore's location at the centre of the region provides potential for its development into a regional aircraft leasing hub.

Aircraft leasing companies wishing to operate from Singapore can already enjoy a 10% concessionary rate of tax on income derived from offshore aircraft leasing. I propose to introduce additional incentives to complement this concessionary tax treatment. Interest payments on foreign loans taken during the incentive period to finance the operating leases will be exempt from tax. Approved companies will also be allowed the flexibility to depreciate their aircraft bought during the incentive period over 20 years instead of the normal 5 years. The additional incentive may be granted for 5 years in the first instance, and may be extended thereafter. It will take effect from Year of Assessment 1996.

## TAX CHANGES FOR INDIVIDUALS

TAX CHANGES FOR INDIVIDUALS

## Income Tax Rebate

Income Tax Rebate

Because of the good performance of the economy in 1994, I propose to give an across-the-board one-off rebate of 10% on individual income tax for the Year of Assessment 1995. This is equivalent to a

3 percentage proportional cut in tax rates. The revenue loss to the Government is estimated to be $234 million.

## Rebates on HDB Service and Conservancy and Rental Charges

Rebates on HDB Service and Conservancy and Rental Charges

With GST-related personal income tax changes which took effect from Year of Assessment 1994, 71% of individuals no longer pay income tax. As they have also contributed to the growth of the economy, Government will pay, on behalf of citizen householders staying in rented and owner-occupied HDB flats, the following charges:

a)

## One-Room Flats

One-Room Flats

Payment of two months' net rent and three months' net S&C charges, after deduction of the GST offset rebates. The rental payments will be made on 1st April and 1st December, and the S&C payments on 1st April, 1st August and 1st December this year.

b)

## Two-Room Flats

Two-Room Flats

Payment of one month's net rent and three months' net S&C charges, after deduction of the GST offset rebates. The rental payment will be made on 1st April and the S&C payments on 1st April, 1st August and 1st December this year.

c)

## Three-Room Flats

Three-Room Flats

Payment of two months' net S&C charges after deduction of the GST offset rebate. The payments will take effect on 1st April and 1st December this year.

d)

## Four-Room Flats

Four-Room Flats

Payment of one month's gross S&C charges, to be made on 1st April this year.

e)

## Five-Room Flats

Five-Room Flats

Payment of one month's gross S&C charges, to be made on 1st April this year.

The estimated additional cost of these rental and S&C rebates to the Government is $30 million.

## CPF Top-Up Scheme

CPF Top-Up Scheme

The exceptional performance of the economy last year has allowed the Government to accumulate a substantial budget surplus. Although most of the surplus will be put into reserves as a bulwark for the future, a portion will be returned to Singapore citizens who have contributed to the growth of the economy. Government will therefore pay a sum of $200 into the ordinary CPF account of every Singapore citizen aged 21 and above. The payment will be made on 1st October 1995. The cost of this payment is estimated at $360 million.

## Tax Deduction for CPF Contributions by Self-Employed

Tax Deduction for CPF Contributions by Self-Employed

Self-employed persons who contribute to the CPF are allowed to deduct their contributions, inclusive of compulsory Medisave contributions, from their assessable income. The present limit for such deductions is 18.5%, subject to a maximum of $13,320.

On 1st July 1994, the employer_s CPF contribution rate was increased to 20%. In line with this, the limit for the tax deduction will be raised to 20% of the assessable income from self-employment, subject to a maximum of $14,400. This will take effect from the Year of Assessment 1996.

## OTHER TAX CHANGES

OTHER TAX CHANGES

## Reduction in Property Tax

Reduction in Property Tax

Last year, I announced a reduction of the property tax rate for industrial, commercial and let out residential properties from 16% to 15%, with the aim of ultimately reducing it to 12% over 4-5 years. As a measure to further enhance the competitiveness of doing business in Singapore, I have decided to reduce the property tax rate by 2%, from 15% to 13%. The reduction will take effect from 1 July 95 and will involve a revenue loss of $214 million per annum for Government. The Government strongly encourages landlords to share this

reduction in property tax with their tenants. The 4% concessionary tax rate for owner-occupied residential properties will remain unchanged.

## Withdrawal of Property Tax Exemption for Land Under Development

Withdrawal of Property Tax Exemption for Land Under Development

At present, land under development are exempted from property tax for a period of up to 5 years. This tax exemption was introduced in 1987 to help entrepreneurs tide over the economic downturn in the 1986 to 1987 period. Given the current strength of the economy in general, and the property market in particular, this tax exemption is no longer necessary. I have thus decided to withdraw the property tax exemption for land under development with immediate effect.

The withdrawal of this tax exemption will only affect new projects. On-going projects that have been granted property tax exemption will continue to enjoy the concession until the projects are completed. Property tax exemption for land under development will henceforth only be granted to certain approved building projects endorsed by the Economic Development Board. These building projects must fit in with Government's aim to build up capabilities in particular industry clusters as well as lead to substantial economic spinoffs and benefits for Singapore.

## Contract Note Stamp Duty on Trading of Stocks in Singapore

Contract Note Stamp Duty on Trading of Stocks in Singapore

Stock trading has become increasingly globalized as a result of technological advances and increased interest by investors in foreign stock investments. For example, Asian stocks are increasingly being listed or traded in the major stock markets outside their home exchanges due to the strong international investor interest in such stocks.

To enhance our competitiveness and to continue to attract international investors to trade in Singapore and regional stocks on our Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Singapore (SES) has recently reduced its minimum stockbroking commission rate from 0.5% to 0.3% for transactions of

Singapore stocks exceeding $1.5 million. This is a commendable initiative on the SES's part to encourage more trading activity. In support of the SES's efforts to keep stock transactions costs in Singapore competitive, I have decided to halve the contract note stamp duty on stock transactions from 0.1% to 0.05% of the contract value. This change will take immediate effect. Revenue foregone from the halving of stamp duty on contract notes is estimated at $135 million for FY95.

## Waiver of Stamp Duty on Loan Agreements for SES Listed Stocks

Waiver of Stamp Duty on Loan Agreements for SES Listed Stocks

To raise the sophistication of the stock market and to cater to the needs of institutional investors, the SES plans to facilitate lending and borrowing of SES listed stocks. Stock borrowing is widely carried out in major financial markets. With the increased sophistication of stock market participants in Singapore, there is scope for the growth of stock lending and borrowing in SES stocks. To support the development of such activities and encourage the growth of stock options trading, I have decided to exempt loan agreements for lending and borrowing of Singapore stocks, for ASCs, ACUs and residents outside Singapore, from stamp duty with immediate effect.

## Water Conservation Tax

Water Conservation Tax

The water conservation tax was last increased in 1992. This successfully brought down the increase in demand for water from 5.4% in 1992 to 4.9% in 1993. However, despite the continued efforts by the Public Utilities Board to encourage water conservation amongst households and industries, the increase in demand for water has since climbed back to 6.5% for 1994.

Water is a scarce resource for Singapore as we import a large part of the water we consume. To restrain the growth in water consumption, Government has decided to increase the Water Conservation Tax on domestic customers who consume more than 20 cubic metres

of water per month from 10% to 15%. The tax for non-domestic and shipping customers will also be increased from 15% to 20%. This tax change will take effect from 1st April 1995.

## Duties on Cigarettes and Tobacco

Duties on Cigarettes and Tobacco

Imported cigarettes are currently subject to both import and excise duties, while locally manufactured cigarettes are subject to an excise duty on the leaf tobacco and an excise duty on the finished product. To equalize the tax treatment between locally manufactured and imported cigarettes, import duty on cigarettes will be eliminated and excise duty on cigarettes raised to $115 per kg with immediate effect. In addition, local cigarette manufacturers will be exempted from excise duty on tobacco leaves used in the production of local cigarettes. Details of the duty changes for the various types of cigarettes and tobacco are in Appendix A (Cols. 117 - 120).

Appendix A - CHANGES IN CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO DUTIES (Cols. 117 - 120)

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

Mr Speaker, Sir, we are facing a period of historic transformation of Asian economies. The region is taking off. Excellent opportunities abound. We, in Singapore, must seize the moment or risk being left behind. If our businesses explore the opportunities abroad, if they capitalise on our supportive and conducive fiscal environment; and if our people continue to be dynamic, daring and outward looking, we should be able to move forward in this sea of change. I am confident that with guts, gumption and enterprise, we will stay ahead and prosper. [Applause].

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1995 to 31st March, 1996." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 86, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed on what day, Dr Hu?

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Monday, 13th March, 1995, Sir.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 13th March, 1995." - [Mr Wong Kan Seng].

Adjourned accordingly at Twenty Minutes past Six o'clock pm to Monday, 13th March, 1995.
