# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1998-02-27
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker);

---

## Sitting accordingly suspended

Sitting accordingly suspended

## at 4.07 pm until 4.30 pm.

at 4.07 pm until 4.30 pm.

## Sitting resumed at 4.30 pm

## Sitting resumed at 4.30 pm

Sitting resumed at 4.30 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1998 to 31st March, 1999.

## I REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

I REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

## ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1997

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1997

Mr Speaker, Sir, the Singapore economy grew by a robust 7.8% in 1997. However, this did not reflect the seriousness of the ongoing regional economic turmoil which started in July last year.

Economic growth in 1997 was largely shaped by two factors. First, we benefited from the recovery in the global electronics industry. Corrections in inventory overhang and healthy new orders in US and Europe boosted export demand, and confirmed our earlier assessment that the slowdown we experienced in the second half of 1996 was primarily cyclical. This turnaround provided the fillip for the manufacturing sector. We expected this.

But nobody expected the second factor - the spread and subsequent deepening of the economic crisis in the region. The speed and severity of contagion caught everyone off-guard. What started off as a devaluation of the Thai Baht led to widespread financial and economic turbulence in the region. One after another, regional

currencies and stock markets plummeted as international confidence in the region as a whole fell and global capital flowed out of East Asia. Singapore, despite our strong fundamentals, was not spared.

Fortunately, the impact on the real economy in 1997 was muted. There were two primary reasons for this. First, a large part of Singapore's regional trade consists of intra-firm movement of parts, components and final products by multi-national companies (MNCs) for export to end markets in the OECD countries. As final demand from the US and EU was healthy, Singapore's overall trade was not too seriously affected by the regional crisis. Second, the upswing in global electronics demand also supported our manufacturing growth, generating favourable spin-offs for our related hub services.

## ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 1998

ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 1998

The regional crisis is far from over. While its impact on us in 1997 was minimal, the same cannot be said for 1998. Being at the heart of South East Asia, we are not isolated from regional conditions. We have comprehensive economic linkages with the region and a strong stake in our neighbours' prosperity. In particular, our tradable services sectors like finance and tourism have a strong regional orientation and will be directly affected.

It is useful to review how the regional crisis started and spread, assess its impact on the Singapore economy and businesses, and identify the measures which the Government, companies and Singaporeans can take to tide over this difficult period.

What Caused the Crisis

The roots of the crisis can be traced back to the huge influx of cheap foreign capital to the region in the early 1990s. With inadequate prudential supervision, regional financial institutions over-extended themselves and lent excessively, often to unproductive sectors and projects. This rapid build up of foreign debt was not sustainable. It created asset bubbles in the property and stock markets. For a time, strong regional economic

growth enabled the countries to service their debt obligations through buoyant export revenues.

Confidence in the region's export potential began to waver towards the mid-1990s, with various exchange rate realignments. In 1994, China devalued the Yuan. In 1995 the Japanese Yen started depreciating against the greenback. In countries whose currencies were tightly pegged to the US dollar, exports began to lose competitiveness. Economies such as China and Latin America emerged as keen competitors. These developments coincided with a cyclical downturn in the global electronics industry and precipitated a regional export slowdown in 1996.

With the export engines stalled, investors and creditors grew nervous of the regional countries' continued ability to service the growing foreign debt burden. Eventually, the market lost faith in the sustainability of the linked exchange rate systems adopted by regional economies.

Thailand was the first to suffer this loss of investor confidence. Speculative attacks against the Baht mounted as concerns about the Thai economy grew. The breaking point came when Thailand's foreign reserves dipped below its short-term foreign debt obligations in the middle of 1997. Without sufficient reserves to defend its currency, the Thai Government was forced to allow the Baht to float on 2nd July 1997. The contagion effect of this de-facto devaluation of the Thai Baht quickly spread to Malaysia and Indonesia as the market switched its attention to other Southeast Asian economies with similar structural weaknesses in their financial and banking systems.

By September, the financial crisis extended to North East Asia. Hong Kong's US dollar peg came under severe pressure, but managed to hold. Long standing structural weaknesses in Japan's financial and banking system caused some major institutions to fail. South Korea, with weaker fundamentals and large private sector debt, took the biggest hit. A massive US$57 billion IMF-led bail-out package was necessary to stabilise the Won, and to keep the Korean economy on its feet.

Depending on how successfully Governments manage economic recovery, maintain political and social stability, and restore investor confidence, the regional situation could either gradually stabilise and start to recuperate, or continue to deteriorate before it gets better. Even if regional countries take all the right steps and see through painful but necessary political and economic reform policies, the recovery process cannot be immediate. Overall, we can therefore expect slower regional growth over the short to medium term.

Outlook for the Singapore Economy

Looking ahead, it is difficult to predict precisely the immediate economic outlook for Singapore. The regional context is too volatile and fraught with uncertainties. Further, political, social and economic changes can trigger off new discontinuities, and render past trends irrelevant. What we can do is to assess the economic outlook based on the current situation, assuming there are no drastic developments.

The Singapore economy is expected to feel the full impact of the regional economic crisis this year. The latest business expectations survey results indicate that nearly all major sectors expect weaker business conditions for the next 6 months. The Composite Leading Index, which leads economic activity by about 9 months, has been slowing down since September.

Growth in the financial services sector is likely to moderate significantly. The Asian Dollar Market, one of the key financial growth engines, will slow considerably. With the risk premium for the region having risen significantly, financial institutions are adopting a wait-and-see stance before committing any new loans to the region. Activity in the foreign exchange and stock markets is also expected to moderate from the high levels in the second half of 1997.

The commerce sector has already registered early impacts from the regional crisis. Entrepot trade will moderate as

import demand from regional countries for consumption and capital goods slows. The other domestic segments within commerce will also not be spared. The tourism and retail trades are already seeing slower tourist arrivals and consumer spending, with no immediate prospects of a pickup.

The transportation sector, especially our air and sea ports, will also be adversely affected by the fall in tourist arrivals and regional transhipment activities. However, the telecommunications sub-sector should continue to expand, albeit at a more moderated pace.

In manufacturing, the continuing robustness of our major export markets in US and EU will help to sustain growth. The US is enjoying an unprecedented stretch of strong growth accompanied by low unemployment and low inflation. The uptrend in US demand for electronics components since the second half of 1996 is continuing. Growth in the EU is also expected to remain firm. The healthy pipeline of investment commitments over the last few years will also contribute to additional industrial capacity in 1998. These positive factors will help our manufacturing sector, although we will still see some consolidation in industries where there is global over-capacity and keen competition.

Construction should see robust growth. Private residential developments are sluggish. But growth will be supported by the continued healthy pipeline of public sector infrastructure projects, including the North-East MRT line and public housing projects.

Under present conditions, the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) expects the Singapore economy to slow down significantly, but not to the extent of going into a recession. MTI's economic growth forecast for 1998 is 2.5 to 4.5%. MTI will continue to monitor future developments closely, and review its forecast where necessary.

Lessons from the financial crisis

The rapid development of the regional crisis and the regional outlook for 1998 contains two important lessons for Singapore.

First, even while the external environment appears favourable, things can deteriorate rapidly. We cannot assume that the external environment will remain benign forever. We should never be complacent. Policy vigilance is necessary. We must save and invest wisely in good times, to build up a deep and firm economic foundation.

Second, the regional crisis has reaffirmed the importance of preserving and instilling confidence internationally and domestically for continued stability and economic growth. International and domestic investors determine demand, invest ment and hence the level of business activity. The Government must therefore build up the confidence and trust of investors through credible, consistent and pro-growth policies. During crises, we must be responsive and ready to effect rational measures judiciously and promptly to restore market confidence.

Policy Stance/Adjustments

We should use this period as an opportunity to build on our considerable strengths, review our longer term strategies and position ourselves for future growth. Fortunately, our economy is now much stronger and more resilient than it was in 1985. Our economic structure is more mature, our costs more aligned with productivity and economic growth, and our people better trained and skilled than a decade ago. Our current account surpluses and reserves are healthy, our export markets are well diversified, and our industrial and services base is broad. Overall, our fundamentals remain sound.

The Government is watching closely the impact of the regional crisis on our economy. The Committee On Singapore's Competitiveness has gathered private sector feedback and recommendations. We must make some adjustments to keep our business environment competitive, but drastic policy changes are not appropriate or necessary at this juncture.

In formulating our policies, the Government's key objective is to maintain the framework for economic activity. Market

forces will compel industries to consolidate and restructure. Some industries will feel the fall in business demand more than others. Weak and over-extended companies may have to merge or fold. We must accept this. It is the normal process of adjustment to new economic conditions. The Government cannot prevent it from happening, or intervene to support companies which are in difficulty, without paying a high price in terms of misallocated resources and moral hazard. At the same time, we will push ahead with plans to restructure our economy towards higher value-added activities, and enhance our economic capabilities and competitiveness to support future growth.

(A) Fiscal Policy

During this period of uncertainty, we have emphasised fiscal prudence in planning the Government Budget. We have decided to adopt a conservative fiscal stance, and target for a modest budget surplus, smaller than in recent years. Government revenues will be stagnant. We are keeping a tight lid on operational expenditures. But we are increasing capital expenditures, particularly in the key areas of education, economic infrastructure and defence, in order to invest for the long-term.

## Education

Education

Human talent has always been our most precious resource, and will become increasingly critical as we develop into a knowledge-based economy. The quality of our education system will determine whether young Singaporeans will be able to access, process and apply knowledge creatively. The Ministry of Education (MOE) has embarked on a comprehensive plan to upgrade both the hard and soft aspects of our school infrastructure. For example, the Master Plan for Information Technology in Education seeks to impart thinking, learning and communication skills through the use of information technology (IT) in our schools. At the same time, the Master Plan aims to continually anticipate the needs of society in future and cater courses to meet these needs.

## Economic infrastructure

Economic infrastructure

Our world-class infrastructure has helped to keep us in front in a highly competitive environment by keeping our total business cost relatively low. We must continue to invest in building our longer-term productive capacity. Key economic infrastructure projects we will push on with include reclamation at Changi East, Jurong Island Phase 3 and the upgrading of industrial facilities at Tuas. This counter-cyclical spending will boost the economy, and enable us to take advantage of lower construction costs during the regional slowdown.

## Defence

Defence

Economic prosperity depends on a framework of stability and security. A strong, credible SAF deterrent has been a key element of this framework. A professional and effective defence force with cutting-edge capabilities is not built up overnight, but through prudent and consistent investment over many years. Defence spending must be seen as a long-term investment, not dependent on the ups and downs of the economy from year to year. A credible defence capability is the pre-condition for Singapore's continued peace and prosperity.

(B) Wage Restraint & Skills Upgrading

Our overall cost structure is not significantly out of line. Singapore is internationally competitive, unlike in 1985. But we should be careful to do nothing to weaken our competitiveness during this period of slower economic growth. Cost containment will be a major concern for all businesses.

Wages form the largest component of business costs. We need to watch wage costs very carefully. Our priority this year should be to protect jobs.

Companies are already trimming back wage increases, and in some cases freezing wages. The Government has announced that salaries of ministers and civil servants will effectively be frozen this

year. Wage moderation and flexibility are an important part of our response to the regional crisis.

Up to the 1985 recession, our wage system was too rigid. This made it difficult for companies to trim wage costs when the economy slowed, and contributed to deepening the recession. To trim costs, we had no alternative but to cut the employers' CPF contribution rate. So after the recession, we set up the flexible wage system. As the economy grew, year by year we built up a variable component of wages, instead of locking in all the wage increases of good years in the fixed wage. This variable component would be a buffer that could be reduced not too painfully when business conditions changed.

In 1987, when the flexible wage system was introduced, the variable component was, on average, 11% of total annual wages. Today, in the civil service the variable component has increased to at least 20% of annual wages, while in the private sector, the variable component is about 16%.

We built up the variable component of salaries precisely to meet a situation like this year. If we need to trim wage costs this year, these variable components will be the first line of defence. This will depend on the NWC recommendations.

Slower economic growth also makes it more urgent for workers to re-skill, re-train and upgrade themselves. There will be retrenchments as industries and companies consolidate. Workers who add significant value to companies are those who will keep their jobs. The key challenge for workers is to remain relevant and employable.

The Government's policy has always been to create the right conditions for companies to create good jobs, and to provide ample training and upgrading opportunities for workers. We have not opted for unemployment insurance, but instead have kept our labour market flexible. This approach has served workers well and produced full employment for many years.

However, despite this, nobody can expect lifetime job security. From time to

time workers will be retrenched, even in a full employment economy. When this happens, those who have been retrenched must be willing to be flexible in their expectations, and if necessary accept a little less pay to secure a new job. The longer a worker stays unemployed, the more difficult it will be for him or her to rejoin the workforce. Even now the number of foreign professionals and workers is still increasing in Singa pore. There are more jobs to be filled than Singaporeans available to do them.

Companies too need to tighten their belts during this period. They should look at streamlining and consolidating their operations to cut costs. They should also take the opportunity to upgrade their capabilities, and enhance their existing products and services to prepare for the upturn. At the same time, they should make more efforts to upgrade their workers. While MNCs and larger companies have made significant progress in worker training, reaching roughly 4-6% of investment payroll, smaller companies still lag behind, spending an average of only about 2%. Just as the Government is not letting up on our investments in education, companies too should not neglect to improve the quality of their workforce.

(C) Local Enterprise Financing Scheme

Another key concern of businessmen during this period of slower growth is the availability and cost of capital to support their business activities. Some businesses have reported that they are facing higher interest rates and that their credit lines are being pulled back.

Some tightening of bank credit and increase in interest rates is inevitable at a time of regional uncertainty. The Government has explained that it cannot intervene to ask banks to extend loans or to lower interest rates. These are commercial lending decisions, which the banks themselves have to take.

However, the Government will enhance its Local Enterprise Financing Scheme (LEFS) to help local businesses to obtain working capital.

First, we will expand the scope of LEFS to cover more local enterprises. For factoring and working loan facilities, we will raise the eligibility threshold for manufacturing companies from a maximum of $15 million in fixed productive assets, to $30 million. For services companies, the cap on maximum employment size will be raised from 200 to 300 employees.

Second, the Government will share a greater part of the risk in LEFS. Currently, for factoring loans, the risk is borne fully by the financial institution administering the LEFS loan, while for working capital loans, the Government and the financial institution share the risk 40:60. The Government will now co-share the risk for both factoring and working capital loans on a 50:50 basis with the financial institution. However, the financial institution must still undertake the necessary credit analysis, and satisfy itself that the company is a good risk.

Third, the maximum loan quantum per company for factoring and working capital loan facilities will be increased from $5 million to $8 million.

To cater for the expected increase in the volume of LEFS loans, the Government will increase its provision in LEFS loan lines from $760 million to $1.1 billion. We will review these enhancements to LEFS in 2 years' time.

The Productivity and Standards Board and the Economic Development Board will be releasing more details of the enhanced LEFS shortly.

(D) JTC/HDB Rentals

Besides wages and the cost of capital, rentals form another significant component of business costs. In July last year, the Jurong Town Corporation (JTC) implemented several measures to moderate or defer rental increases for its lessees. These measures are up for review on 1st July 1998. Similarly, in December 1997, the Housing and Development Board (HDB) implemented a package of rental concessions for its industrial and commercial tenants. The HDB package included moderating rental adjustments at

3rd renewal of tenancies and staggering increases in rent for sub-letting and assignment cases. These steps were part of the Government's continuing efforts to review and moderate cost pressures on businesses.

JTC and HDB will now extend additional rental concessions to their tenants and lessees.

(a) JTC and HDB will freeze their posted land rentals for an additional 12 months, till end June 1999. They will moderate rental adjustments for their industrial land lessees who are paying less than the posted rates.

(b) JTC will freeze the posted rentals of its factories, workshops and warehouses till end June 1999, and similarly moderate rental adjustments for existing tenants.

(c) To help tenants and lessees who may have temporary cashflow problems, HDB and JTC will make upfront collections of rental payments monthly rather than quarterly.

JTC and HDB will be releasing more details of these concessions separately.

(E) Government Land Releases

Another area of concern is the health of the property market in Singapore. An unstable property market will not only affect the property value of homeowners, but also has repercussions on the financial and economic system.

In November, the Government announced adjustments to the private residential policies to avoid aggravating the excess supply in the market. The sale of sites for some 2,000 units from the 1997 Government Land Sales (GLS) programme was deferred to the first half of 1998. The 1998 GLS programme was postponed until the second half of 1998, and the original sale quantum of 5,000 units was to be reviewed.

But the situation has altered considerably since November. The Government has decided on further adjustments to its land sales in 1998 as follows:

## Private Residential Properties

Private Residential Properties

The Government will defer the sale of sites for 2,000 units, scheduled for the first half of 1998. It plans to release a total of 2,500 units for private residential development in the second half of 1998. We will continue to monitor the regional and domestic situation, and if necessary, adjust the land sales programme again.

The policy to release sufficient land over the medium term to meet Singaporeans' aspirations to own private properties is unchanged. The Government will resume selling a steady supply of land when the market recovers.

## Executive Condominiums

Executive Condominiums

Like private residential properties, the demand for Executive Condominiums has also been affected by the economic slowdown. The Government will reduce the land supply for Executive Condominiums in 1998 from the 3,000 units originally announced to 1,500 units.

## Commercial Space & Hotel Rooms

Commercial Space & Hotel Rooms

The Government will release land for about 80,000 square metres of nett commercial space in 1998. This is about half the 166,000 square metres made available in 1997, and takes into account the demand and supply situation in the medium term.

As there are enough hotel rooms to meet the needs of the tourism industry in the medium term, the Government will not release any land for hotel development in 1998.

The Ministry of National Development will separately announce details of the sites to be released in 1998 for private residential properties, Executive Condominiums and commercial development.

The Government will also be making some tax changes and concessions to help ease business costs. I will elaborate on the details in a later part of my speech.

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

The regional financial crisis arose out of financial excesses and a rapid erosion of investor confidence. Provided stability is

maintained and effective reform measures are implemented, market confidence will be gradually restored in the regional economies and further fall-out will be minimised. But if reform measures are unsuccessful or stability is shaken, it could trigger off further uncertainty and economic difficulty.

The regional crisis will affect the Singapore economy significantly in 1998. We must all be prepared for the slower growth. However, Singapore is in a strong position to weather this regional storm. Provided businesses, workers and the Government rally together, we will successfully weather this difficult period and emerge more resilient.

Intense economic competition is already a reality. When the region recovers, the regional economies will be leaner, fitter and more competitive. Singapore must use this time to invest wisely, restructure, consolidate and build up our capabilities and productive capacities. Whether we can ride the next wave of growth when the region recovers depends on whether we continue to add value to the world.

## II THE FY98 BUDGET

II THE FY98 BUDGET

Mr Speaker, Sir, let me now present the Budget for Fiscal Year 1998.

## EXPENDITURE POLICY

EXPENDITURE POLICY

Operating revenue in FY98 is expected to grow by 3.8% in FY98, lower than the average growth rate of 6.7% over the past three years. This is due to the effects of lower economic growth and the follow through of tax cuts introduced in previous years.

Notwithstanding the slower increase in revenues, our revenue base remains robust and a deficit budget is not envisaged. Adequate funds will be available to maintain, and even increase, where necessary, expenditures needed to support long term growth and future competitiveness. As mentioned earlier, this will mainly be in the areas of education, economic infrastructure and defence. However, because of the considerable uncertainties which continue to

overhang the region, we will exercise fiscal restraint in other non-crucial areas of expenditure. The FY98 Budget Estimates have been prepared on this basis.

## FY98 EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES

FY98 EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES

Total Government expenditure in FY98 will increase by 15% to $27.2 billion. This is more than double the expected nominal GDP growth rate, which will provide some fiscal stimulus to the domestic economy. As in past years, we have however continued to keep a firm rein on operating expenditure, which will rise by 7.8% to $15.5 billion. This is 9.8% of GDP, up marginally from 9.7% of GDP in FY97. On the other hand, development expenditure is expected to jump by 25% to $11.7 billion, carried by the momentum of economic and infrastructural development which began in recent years. This accounts for 7.5% of GDP, up by more than 1 percentage point from 6.3% of GDP in FY97.

I will now highlight the salient features of this year's expenditure budget against the backdrop of our budgetary policies.

## EXPENDITURE PRIORITIES

EXPENDITURE PRIORITIES

Overall, this year's budget continues to emphasise the Government's priorities on education, security, health, public housing, environment, transportation and economic development. Chief among these are education and security which have a strong bearing on Singapore's long-term strategic interests.

Total spending on education will rise by a hefty 30% from $4.4 billion in FY97 to $5.7 billion in FY98. The jump from 3.0% to 3.6% of GDP brings our spending on education closer to the medium-term target of 4% of GDP. We can take pride in having developed an educational system which we believe is one of the best in the world. Our students' performances have been outstanding in international mathematics and science surveys and Olympiads. This year, higher enrolments are projected in schools and tertiary institutions, leading to a 12% increase in operating expenditure. The main boost in the education budget however comes from a 80%

increase in development spending on the building of new and better schools and campuses, the single session secondary school building programme and the roll-out of the IT Master Plan in schools.

Defence spending will amount to 4.6% of GDP, up from 4.4% in FY97, but still well below the 6% of GDP that Government is prepared to commit to develop and maintain a strong and credible defence force. So long as revenues hold up, we should not slacken spending in this area since the security of our nation is the very basis of our survival and prosperity.

With the emphasis on education, the social and community services sector as a whole will account for the lion's share of 37% of total expenditure in FY98, with security coming in close at 34%. The share of spending on economic and infrastructural development will exceed 20% for the second consecutive year, up from an average of only 15% over the period in FY93-96. The increase in this sector is driven by higher development spending.

Operating Expenditure

Operating expenditure in FY98 is expected to be 9.8% of GDP. As a share of GDP, this is consistent with levels in previous years, barring the one-time compensation of $1.5 billion to SingTel in FY96 for removal of monopoly privileges. At around the 10% GDP level, our operating expenditure is also considerably lower than that of most developed countries. This is the result of a deliberate policy to keep the public sector lean and trim, avoiding welfarism and confining Government's role to one of providing basic public goods and services, thus freeing more manpower and financial resources to the private sector as the engine of growth.

At the same time, the growth of operating expenditure will not be held down dogmatically without regard to public expectations for new and higher quality services as well as increased workload. Where warranted, we will provide for increases in operating expenditure.

Since 1994, we have also introduced a financial management system called Budgeting-for-Results or BFR, to raise the quality and efficiency of public services. Under the BFR programme, the public sector is managed along the lines of Autonomous Agencies, or AAs. With effect from April last year, all AAs are required to pre-specify output and performance targets that they hope to achieve for the budgets voted to them in return for greater autonomy in financial and personnel management. Wherever possible, they will attempt to link their outputs directly to their funding. In this way, there is greater accountability for deliverables, and transparency in the utilisation of public resources. The aim is to ensure that public sector recurrent spending does not outstrip nominal GDP growth rate, with compensation made for increased workload and new programmes and services.

The BFR framework is appropriate and effective in regulating the running cost of Government departments and Government-funded statutory boards. Running costs constitute more than 90% of our operating expenditure. Since annual increases in cost factors are generally lower than GDP growth, any increase in running costs as a share of GDP is due entirely to new programmes and higher workload.

Transfers, the other component of operating expenditure, are budgeted at $1.2 billion. These constitute less than 10% of operating expenditure. More than half will go to restructured hospitals as healthcare and medical subsidies, another 16% will go to town councils to subsidise estate management costs, and 10% will go to welfare and community self-help organisations. This reflects the Government's philosophy on subsidies. Subsidies are given selectively, and only on essentials such as basic healthcare and public housing on a cost-sharing basis. For example, medical subsidies on hospitalisation are fixed as a percentage of charges and skewed heavily in favour of

the lower income groups. At the same time, genuine cases of dire need are never ignored. Medifund, set up in 1993 as a fall-back for those who cannot afford to pay their share of medical cost, is expected to pay out some $18 million in medical subsidies in FY97 to cover the needs of those who cannot afford even the heavily subsidised C class charges.

Since its launch, the Medifund has received $600 million in transfers from the Government to build up its capital endowment. Based on the current level of capital in the fund, projected income will be adequate to meet projected drawdowns in FY98. I do not therefore propose to make an additional transfer of capital to the Medifund this year.

The absence of large scale public assistance programmes reflects the Government's stand on state welfarism. We believe that extensive welfare programmes damage the fabric of our society as they diminish individual responsibility, self-reliance, community support and the work ethic. Even in the UK, the Government has realised that welfarism is not the right way to go, and is trying to roll back many of the welfare programmes and policies introduced after the Second World War. Our approach is one of many helping hands, with co-funding from Government and public donations, and services rendered by volunteers and members of the community.

Development Expenditure

As a percentage of GDP, we spend much more on development than the G-7 economies. This reflects the emphasis we place on building up a world-class infrastructure, focusing on areas which bring high returns and lasting benefits. We will invest in infrastructure to support economic activities. We will develop a first-rate road and rail network system to transport people and goods efficiently and more industrial land will be made available through reclamation. School buildings and teaching systems will be constantly upgraded to prepare our young to deal with future challenges in the workplace and society. We will continue to invest in affordable and good quality

public housing, and in modern drainage, sanitary and waste handling systems to support healthy living. Not least, we need to constantly upgrade our defence and internal security infrastructure so that our families and assets are well protected.

Over the last three years, that is, FY95-97, spending on development has risen steadily from between 3-5% of GDP prior to FY95 to 6.3% in FY97, and now, to 7.5% in FY98. As Singapore's economy graduates from the ranks of developing country status to an advanced developing economy, we will face new challenges and stronger competition. We will need to quicken the pace of economic infrastructural development and renewal, and to accelerate the development and education of our workforce. Notwithstanding the current regional economic turmoil, we intend to implement all the essential development programmes. We will then emerge stronger and more robust once the storm blows over in this part of the world.

Economic development programmes under the Ministry of Trade and Industry are expected to cost $2.8 billion and account for the largest share of development expenditure. Its share of GDP will rise from only 0.3% of GDP before FY95 to 1.8% of GDP. The thrust of development is in land reclamation on Jurong Island to meet expansion needs of the petroleum, petrochemical and chemical industry, an important and growing arm of our manufacturing sector. More than $1 billion is committed in FY98 for reclamation of 1,800 hectares and a road link to Jurong Island. In addition, another $420 million has been earmarked for on-going reclamation and development at Tuas View. Funds are also provided under the Economic Development and Assistance Scheme, and the building of a mega exhibition centre, a centrepiece of the Tourism 21 plan.

Communications ranks second with a development budget of $1.8 billion. This is 1.2% of GDP, doubling from 0.66% of GDP in FY96, as we are committed to create a world-class land transport system. A sum of $1.2 billion is provided for the North East MRT Line, Changi MRT Extension,

Bukit Panjang LRT, Sengkang LRT, a new MRT station at Singapore Polytechnic and the construction of a building directly above and integrated with the Dhoby Ghaut MRT station. Also on the cards are several improvements to our road network, such as the upgrading of expressways and the building of new junction interchanges and roads to ease congestion for faster movement of people and goods.

As a result, spending on economic and infrastructural development as a whole is set to more than double from 1.3% of GDP in FY93 to 3.1% of GDP in FY98. For the second consecutive year, it has overtaken social and community services as the top priority in development spending.

But this has not been achieved at the expense of reduced development spending on social and community services. In fact, development spending on social and community services has also risen steadily and strongly over the past five years, from 1.7% of GDP in FY93 to 2.7% of GDP in FY98. This is driven mainly by increased spending on education projects, which will almost double, from 0.7% of GDP in FY93 to 1.2% of GDP in FY98. Spending on drainage, sewerage and waste disposal facilities under the Ministry of the Environment has also gone up three-fold from 0.2% of GDP in FY93 to 0.6% of GDP in FY98. On the slate are a fourth incineration plant, a landfill at Pulau Semakau, and the upgrading of various sewerage works and facilities to expand processing capacity to accommodate future demand.

Capital expenditure on public housing is expected to remain at about 0.5% of GDP, increasing by 8% to about $790 million. This includes $150 million in capital grants to HDB, $350 million for the main upgrading programme, and another $130 million for the interim upgrading programme.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: Order. I suspend the Sitting and will take the Chair again at 5.35 pm.

## Sitting accordingly suspended at

Sitting accordingly suspended at

## 5.20 pm until 5.35 pm

5.20 pm until 5.35 pm

## Sitting resumed at 5.35 pm

## Sitting resumed at 5.35 pm

Sitting resumed at 5.35 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

## III REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

III REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Mr Speaker, Sir, let me turn next to the fiscal position and the proposed tax changes.

Revenue growth is expected to slow in 1998 in tandem with slower economic growth. Estimated revenue collection is $29.9 billion, while operating and development expenditures are budgeted at $27.2 billion. The operating surplus for FY98 is therefore expected to be $2.7 billion or about 1.7% of GDP. As a percentage of GDP, the surplus is much lower than the average of nearly 7% achieved over the five years between 1991 and 1995 and even lower than the 3.8% average of 1996 and 1997.

Apart from the direct impact of the regional turmoil on lowering growth and revenue in FY98, there are two other reasons for the smaller surplus. One is a general slowdown in the growth of revenue collection due to the cumulative effects of tax cuts introduced over the past 12 years. The other is the substantial rise in development expenditures in recent years. Over the 5-year period between 1991 and 1995, development expenditures averaged 4.3% of GDP per year. In 1996 and 1997, development expenditures jumped to nearly 6.5% of GDP when we embarked on major programmes to upgrade and expand our economic and educational infrastructures. Development expenditure will rise further to 7.5% of GDP in FY98 as implementation of the Education IT Master Plan, North-East MRT Line and land reclamation programmes accelerate. These expenditures are expected to peak in FY99.

Despite slower revenue growth and higher development spending, the forecast surplus of 1.7% of GDP will allow us to continue with the policy of adding to our surpluses each year. The need to build up our financial reserves cannot be over emphasised. The regional crisis has clearly demonstrated the importance of

such reserves, especially for a small and open economy like ours. If not for our strong fiscal and reserves positions, our currency and stock market would have been much more severely affected by the fallout from the financial crisis. The comfortable reserves position which we enjoy today is the result of prudent fiscal policies steadfastly pursued in the past 30 years. We are committed to continuing with these policies, and remain confident that our strong fundamentals will carry us through the current financial turmoil.

For the FY98 budget, substantial increases in infrastructure expenditure will provide stimulus to offset slowdowns in sectors affected by the regional crisis. Although GDP growth is expected to slowdown substantially this year, a decline to negative growth is not foreseen, so major stimulus initiatives are not contemplated at this time. Our tax rates remain competitive and no major tax changes will be made against a background of declining revenue collections and rising development expenditures. However, as the economic outlook in the region this year is volatile and unpredictable, the situation will be closely monitored. If a sudden downturn should take place, Government will not hesitate to respond with off-budget measures, as we have more than adequate resources to cope with any eventuality. In the interim, we will make some adjustments to lower the cost for businesses. We will also provide some assistance to individuals and households to help them tide through a more difficult year. I will elaborate on the details later. In addition, we will continue to fine-tune our tax incentives to promote activities with high growth potential. In particular, there will be a package of incentives to promote the development of the financial sector. These refinements will sharpen our competitive edge and ensure that when the region recovers, we will be ready to take advantage of the opportunities.

Let me now deal first with the tax changes for companies.

## TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

## Tax Incentives to Promote Fund Management

Tax Incentives to Promote Fund Management

Currently, fund managers approved under the Tax Exemption Scheme for Fund Management enjoy a concessionary tax rate of 10% on the fee income earned from managing non-resident funds. In addition, fund managers which manage at least $5 billion worth of non-resident funds can also enjoy a reduction in the tax rate to 5% on the incremental income earned compared with the previous year. Further, those which manage at least $10 billion of non-resident funds are totally exempt from tax for the income earned from managing non-resident funds. These tax incentives, coupled with the Government's decision to place more public funds with the private sector for management, have boosted the growth of our fund management industry. In 1996 alone, total funds managed by financial institutions in Singapore jumped 45% to reach $125 billion. While growth in the fund management industry may have slowed somewhat amidst the current financial turmoil, we remain optimistic about Singapore's long-term potential as a major fund management centre in the region. I have therefore decided to introduce further measures to enhance the competitiveness of the industry. These complement the initiatives to promote the fund management industry, announced by DPM Lee on Thursday, 26th February.

To encourage more fund managers to expand their operations in Singapore, I have decided to lower the threshold requirement to qualify for the full tax exemption. Fund managers which manage at least $5 billion of non-resident funds will now enjoy the full tax exemption for fee income earned from managing non-resident funds for a period of 5 years. This will replace the existing concessionary tax rates of 5 and 0% for fund managers which manage $5 billion and $10 billion worth of non-resident funds respectively. For those which already manage $5 billion of non-resident funds and have made strong commitments to further increase their level of fund management activities in Singapore,

a longer exemption period of up to 10 years may be considered. In addition, fund managers which manage less than $5 billion of non-resident funds may qualify for the tax exemption for up to 5 years if they increase their fund management activities in Singapore substantially. MAS will negotiate these conditions with individual fund managers, on a case-by-case basis, in the same way that EDB negotiates pioneer status and investment allowance awards with individual companies.

This new incentive scheme will be effective from Year of Assessment 1999 and will be reviewed after 5 years.

Tax Incentives to Promote the Bond Market

Singapore has grown in importance as a regional centre for the issue of bonds and other debt securities. However, our bond market is still less developed compared to our equity market as most corporations still prefer to raise funds through equity listing on the stock exchange or through direct borrowing from banks. This is generally true of most markets in Asia. A vibrant bond market is important to the overall development of Singapore as an international financial centre. I have therefore decided to introduce a package of incentives to promote the development of an active bond market in Singapore. They are:

(a) tax exemption on fee income earned by financial institutions in Singapore from arranging debt securities in Singapore, including the underwriting and distribution of such securities;

(b) a 10% concessionary rate of tax on interest income earned by financial institutions and corporations in Singapore from debt securities arranged by financial institutions in Singapore;

(c) tax exemption on interest from debt securities arranged by financial institutions in Singapore and earned by non- residents who do not have any permanent establishments in Singapore. The exemption will apply automatically to

debt securities which meet the criteria. There will be no need to seek approval for the tax exemption for each debt issue as is currently the case; and

(d) a 10% concessionary rate of tax on income earned by financial institutions in Singapore from trading in debt securities.

The new tax treatment for fee and interest income will apply to debt securities issued within a period of 5 years commencing 28th February 1998. The incentive for income earned from trading in debt securities will be granted for a period of 5 years from 28th February 1998.

Taxation of Unit Trusts

In the 1995 Budget, I introduced a tax incentive to promote the domestic unit trust industry. Under this incentive, income except Singapore dividends received by a designated unit trust would be taxed at the time of distribution instead of at the time when the income was received by the trustee. The trustees are however required to withhold tax on the taxable distributions. The incentive also granted a concession to resident individual unit holders who were taxed only on 10% of the distributions made out of gains from the disposal of securities.

To make investments in unit trusts more attractive to resident individuals, I have decided to remove the tax imposed on resident individual unit holders for 10% of the distributions paid out of gains from the disposal of securities.

Further, to simplify the management of unit trusts, I have also decided to remove the withholding requirement on taxable distributions made to unit holders who are tax residents of Singapore. Unit holders who are tax residents are however still liable to pay tax on the distributions.

The changes will take effect from 28th February 1998.

Tax Exemption Scheme For Syndicated Offshore Credit And Underwriting Facilities

The tax exemption scheme for syndicated offshore credit and underwriting facilities was introduced to promote the

development of loan and debt syndication activities in Singapore. Under the scheme, income earned by financial institutions in Singapore from arranging and participating in syndicated facilities denominated in foreign currencies for non-resident borrowers is exempt from tax. The scheme has resulted in the growth of the loan and debt syndication activities in Singapore. In the past three years, an average of $13.5 billion of such facilities were syndicated by financial institutions in Singapore annually.

The scheme is due to expire on 31st March 1998. I have, however, decided to extend it for another five years. In addition, I have also decided to extend the scheme to credit and debt facilities which are syndicated by financial institutions in Singapore for Singapore borrowers, provided the funds raised are used outside Singapore. These measures will help to further develop the syndication market in Singapore. They will take effect from 1st April 1998.

Tax Deduction for General Provisions Made by Banks and Merchant Banks

In 1991, we introduced an incentive to encourage banks and merchant banks to build up their level of general provisions as a cushion against unexpected losses. Each year, banks and merchant banks are allowed to claim tax deduction on general provisions of up to 25% of qualifying profits or 0.5% of qualifying loans and investments, whichever is lower. For each bank or merchant bank, the level of tax deductible general provisions on a cumulative basis cannot exceed 3% of qualifying loans and investments. Many banks and merchant banks have taken advantage of this incentive to build up their general provisions. This has helped to enhance the soundness of individual banks and merchant banks, and also the financial system, especially during this period of regional financial turbulence.

To encourage banks and merchant banks to further build up their general provisions, I have decided to temporarily suspend the annual limits of 25% of qualifying profits and 0.5% of qualifying loans and investments for a period of two years

with effect from Year of Assessment 1998. This will give banks greater flexibility to make as much general provisions as possible to cushion against potential losses arising from the regional financial difficulties. The overall limit of 3% of qualifying loans and investments, which was raised from 2% last year, will remain unchanged.

Extension of Tax Holiday for SIMEX

The Singapore International Monetary Exchange Limited (SIMEX) was granted a 5-year tax holiday when it was first established in 1984. The tax holiday was extended in 1988 and again in 1993 for additional 5-year periods to support the growth of SIMEX. The incentive has enabled the Exchange to build up its reserves and improve on its trading infrastructure.

SIMEX is currently the foremost financial futures exchange in the Asian time zone for the trading of international futures and options contracts. But there is no room for complacency. In order to meet the challenges of global competition and the emergence of other exchanges in the region, SIMEX must continue to improve on its facilities and strengthen its financial reserves. I have therefore decided to extend the tax holiday for SIMEX by another 5 years to the year 2003.

Extension of Venture Capital Incentives

The Government has been actively promoting the venture capital industry since the mid-1980s. Venture capital funds managed in Singapore have reached $7.7 billion as at end of last year. Currently, venture capital funds enjoy tax exemption on the gains from disposal of investments, and on certain investment incomes for a maximum of 10 years. At the same time, fund management companies which manage venture capital funds are awarded pioneer status for managing these funds.

The current 10-year limit may be too restrictive for some investments which have maturity periods which are longer than 10 years. I have therefore decided to extend the tax incentive enjoyed by

venture capital funds, on a case-by-case basis, by up to a further 5 years beyond the current maximum of 10 years. This will encourage venture capital funds to take a longer term perspective of their investments and to minimise premature divestment. The extension will take the form of a concessionary tax rate of not more than 10%. The fund management companies which manage these venture capital funds will also in tandem enjoy concessionary tax rate under the Development and Expansion Incentive beyond the tenth year. The changes will take immediate effect.

Transport and Logistics

Our transport and logistics network has played a pivotal role in Singapore's development as a global city of international trade. Today, the transport and logistics sector contributes 9% to GDP and employs more than 110,000 workers or about 7% of our work force. As an industry which provides essential support to our trade sector, it needs to constantly evolve new and improved services to meet the demands of the trade. Our continued growth as a global city of international trade and hub port also depends critically on the development of a transport and logistics sector with extensive networks. To encourage major transport and logistics operators to further expand their businesses in Singapore and use Singapore as a base for their operations, I have therefore decided to introduce the following tax concessions:

## (a) Tax Exemption for Income Derived from Uplift of Freight

(a) Tax Exemption for Income Derived from Uplift of Freight

Currently, tax is levied on the uplift of cargoes from Singapore, except for Singapore-flagged vessels and vessels from countries with which Singapore has signed a tax treaty. To further boost Singapore's development as an international cargo and shipping hub, I have decided to exempt non-resident ship owners and charterers from tax on their freight uplift from Singapore. This benefit will also be extended to resident shipping companies and companies under the

Approved International Shipping Enterprise Scheme. Removal of the tax on freight uplift would allow shipping companies greater flexibility in planning their shipping schedules and operations. The exemption will take effect from Year of Assessment 1999.

## (b) Tax Concession for International Freight and Logistics Operators

(b) Tax Concession for International Freight and Logistics Operators

Singapore has a long history as the main shipping and distribution hub in the region. To further enhance our hub status, I have decided to introduce a tax incentive to encourage international freight service providers to expand their activities in Singapore. This incentive will be available to ship agencies, ship management companies and logistics providers. To qualify for the incentive, the company must have substantial operations and a good track record in the provision of freight and logistics services. Companies that qualify will be accorded a concessionary tax rate of not less than 10% on their incremental income. The incentive will be granted for a period of five years and will take effect from Year of Assessment 1999.

## c) Tax Exemption for Income Derived From Writing Offshore Marine Hull and Liability Insurance Business

c) Tax Exemption for Income Derived From Writing Offshore Marine Hull and Liability Insurance Business

It is estimated that Asian shipping companies own more than 40% of world shipping tonnage today. Singapore is well placed to serve the marine insurance needs of the companies in the region, particularly in the provision of marine hull and liability insurance. I have therefore decided to exempt from tax the income derived by approved insurance companies from writing offshore marine hull and liability insurance business for a period of 10 years. The incentive would allow insurance companies to tap the insurance potential of the shipping communities in the region. It would also complement Singapore's development as a shipping hub. This concession will take effect from Year of Assessment 1999.

Tax Incentive For Exhibition Organisers

Singapore is currently a major venue for international exhibitions and trade fairs.

Given our strategic location and excellent infrastructure, we are well positioned to develop into an International Exhibition City. To provide further impetus to the development of the exhibition industry, I have decided that approved exhibition organisers will be granted a concessionary tax rate of not less than 10% on their incremental income. The incentive will enable exhibition organisers to offer better quality and bigger exhibitions and trade fairs to the international business community. The incentive will take effect from Year of Assessment 1999.

Approved Cyber-Trader Scheme

Changes in technology have revolutionised the mode of business transactions. Internet, for example, is set to change the way companies conduct their businesses. The value of goods and services currently being traded on the Internet is estimated at US$46 billion. It is expected to grow to between US$200-300 billion by the year 2002.

Internet electronic commerce holds many opportunities for businesses. The financial and logistics sectors will gain from the increased international trading generated by this new mode of transaction. The media and communications sectors, including advertising, information technology, and content creation will also benefit from this development. Local companies can take advantage of this new medium to expand their businesses to the region and beyond through direct marketing and other new strategies. Foreign companies can also use Singapore as a test-bed for broadband applications and a launch pad for its Internet trading activities in the region. The uniqueness of Asia calls for a hub that can service this time zone, and meet its distribution and consumer needs.

Singapore is well placed to become an electronic commerce hub. To tap this growing market, I have decided to grant a concessionary tax rate of 10% on offshore trading income derived from transactions made over the Internet under the Approved Cyber Trader Scheme for companies that qualify. Approved

companies will also enjoy an Investment Allowance of up to 50% of the cost of qualifying new fixed investments, and full or partial exemption of withholding tax on qualifying payments. These incentives will be granted for a period of 5 years with effect from Year of Assessment 1999. The scheme will be administered by the Trade Development Board.

Double Tax Deduction for Employing Talent from Abroad

The Prime Minister has at last year's National Day Rally spoken on the need for Singapore to tap the best talent from around the world to meet future competition. In support of this, I have decided to allow companies to claim double tax deduction for approved relocation and recruitment expenses incurred in the hiring of talent from abroad. The double tax deduction will help to offset the extra costs which companies have to bear in employing such talent to supplement our local work force. Further details of the scheme will be announced later.

One-Year Accelerated Depreciation Allowance For Industrial Noise And Chemical Hazards Control

Noise and harmful chemicals are the two main occupational health hazards in industries. Exposure to excessive noise can cause hearing loss, while overexposure to harmful chemicals may result in poisoning and diseases. As Singapore continues to industrialise, more workers could be exposed to these hazards unless measures are taken to prevent them.

To encourage factories to implement effective measures to counter noise and chemical hazards, I have decided to allow expenditure on such measures to enjoy 100% depreciation in the first year, provided that certain qualifying criteria relating to noise and chemical exposure levels are satisfied. This incentive will apply to expenditure incurred with effect from 1st January 1998. The scheme will be administered by the Ministry of Labour.

Details of the guidelines and qualifying criteria for these incentives are set out in Annexes (Cols. 565 - 572) I and II.

Annexes - ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE FOR NOISE CONTROL IN FACTORIES (Cols. 565 - 568)

Annexes - ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCES FOR CHEMICAL HAZARD CONTROL IN FACTORIES (Cols. 569 - 572)

(c) Three-Room Flats

One and a half months' net S&C charges, after deduction of the GST offset rebates and S&C grant to be given. The S&C rebate will be made on 1st June and 1st December this year.

(d) Four-Room Flats

Three quarter month's net S&C charges, after deduction of the S&C grant to be given. The S&C rebate will be made on 1st December this year.

(e) Five-Room Flats

Half a month's net S&C charges, to be made on 1st December this year.

The estimated cost of these rental and S&C rebates is $29 million.

Rebates for Revisions in Utilities Rates

Last year, utilities rebates and monthly S&C grants were given to citizens living in 1 to 4-room HDB flats to offset the utilities rates increases for the lower income households. I announced that the Government would grant the same utilities rebates and monthly S&C grants in 1998. I am happy to confirm that the same utilities rebates and S&C grants will be given this year.

The utilities rebate will be $100 for 1-, 2-, and 3-room HDB flats, and $50 for 4-room HDB flats. The rebates will be credited against the utilities bills of eligible households for the month of September which are payable in October. Households with smaller bills which are unable to use up the rebate within the month can carry over the balance of the rebate until it is fully used up.

The S&C grant will be $3 per month for 1-room flats, $4 per month for 2-room flats, $5.50 per month for 3-room flats, and $4 per month for 4-room flats. The monthly grant, which started from July 1997, will continue until June 1999.

The utilities rebates and S&C grant will cost the Government about $72 million. Those lower income households who do not live in HDB flats and hence are unable

to benefit from the utilities rebate and S&C grant can obtain help from the Citizens Consultative Committees Assistance Scheme.

Pre-Medisave Top-Up Scheme

The Pre-Medisave Top-Up Scheme was introduced in 1996 to help older Singaporeans who retired before or soon after the introduction of Medisave to build up their Medisave accounts. The first three instalments under the Scheme had been paid in January 1996, January 1997, and January 1998. The last instalment is to be paid in January 1999, subject to the state of the economy. Notwithstanding the expected slowdown in the economy, I am pleased to confirm that the Government will pay the final instalment of the Pre-Medisave Top-Up Scheme in January 1999 as scheduled.

The top-up will be paid into the CPF Medisave accounts of eligible Singaporeans who are 64 years or older on 1st April 1998. As with the third instalment, the co-payment required will only be $20, instead of $50 for the first two instalments. The lower co-payment is to help as many elderly Singaporeans as possible to benefit from the scheme while maintaining the principle that health care should be a joint responsibility between the individuals, their families and the Government. Eligible recipients will have to make the co-payment of $20 between 1st July 1998 and 31st December 1998 into their CPF Medisave Account. The Government will match this $20 with a contribution of $100 to $350 depending on the age group. 250,000 senior citizens qualify for this scheme and the total cost of this, if fully taken up, is $70 million.

Revision of CPF Interest Rates for Special and Retirement Accounts & Voluntary Transfer of CPF Savings from Ordinary Account to Special Account

Currently, the CPF Special Account and Retirement Account both receive an interest rate premium of 1.25% over and above the Ordinary Account. From 1st July 1998, the Government will raise the interest rate premium for these two

accounts by a quarter percentage point, to 1.5%, above the Ordinary Account interest rate. This is to enable CPF members to achieve a higher rate of saving in these two accounts.

In addition, from 1st July 1998, CPF members will be given the option of transferring their savings from the Ordinary Account to the Special Account. These transfers will be on a voluntary basis. The amount that can be transferred will be subject to a cap of $40,000 in the Special Account, that is, a CPF member can only transfer up to the difference between $40,000 and his Special Account balance at the time of the transfer. The $40,000 limit is equal to the eventual cash component of the CPF Minimum Sum.

The transferred funds will form part of the Special Account and will enjoy the higher interest rate applicable to the account. However, the transferred funds will be subject to all existing CPF rules on the Special Account, including the restrictions on the use and withdrawal of funds from the account. Also, all such transfers from the Ordinary Account to the Special Account will not be reversible. CPF members should therefore consider carefully before making such transfers to the Special Account to earn higher interest.

These two changes to the CPF will help CPF members enhance their retirement cash savings. They are estimated to cost the Government more than $100 million per year.

## OTHER TAX CHANGES

OTHER TAX CHANGES

Property Tax Rebate

To help ease cost pressure on companies, I have decided to give a 15% rebate for commercial and industrial properties for the year commencing July 1998. The revenue loss to Government is estimated to be $145 million. HDB, JTC and other Government agencies owning properties will pass on most of this rebate to their tenants. The Government also strongly encourages landlords to do likewise, and pass on at least half of the rebate to their tenants.

Property Tax Exemption for Land Under Development

Between 1986 and 1995, land under development was exempted from property tax. The exemption was introduced to help developers tide over the economic downturn during the recession years. It was subsequently withdrawn after the economy and the property market had shown strong recovery. In view of the current difficulties faced by the property sector, I have decided to reinstate the property tax exemption for land under development. The exemption will be for a period of up to 5 years, and will apply from the time construction begins to the time the Temporary Occupation Permit is granted. The exemption will take immediate effect. The estimated revenue loss from this measure is $200 million a year.

Stamp Duties

Currently, stamp duty is levied on a variety of instruments specified in the First Schedule of the Stamp Duties Act. In the

1996 Budget, stamp duty was abolished on 13 types of instruments. To further reduce costs and inconvenience to businesses and members of the public, stamp duty will be abolished on all instruments, except for those which relate to stock and shares, and immovable properties. The estimated revenue loss from these changes is $33 million. The changes will take effect from 28th February 1998. Details are set forth in Annex III (Cols. 573 - 576).

Annex III - INSTRUMENTS WHERE STAMP DUTY IS ABOLISHED (Cols. 573 - 576)

Duties on Cigarettes

Duties on cigarettes were last increased in February 1993 to discourage smoking. In support of the national effort to discourage smoking, particularly among the younger population, the excise duty on cigarettes will be raised from $115 to $130 per kilogram. Details of the changes are in Annex IV (Cols. 577 - 580). The changes in duties is estimated to increase revenue by about $35 million a year, and will take effect from today.

Annex IV (Cols. 577 - 580)

Electronic Road Pricing and Vehicle Tax Rationalisation

The Ministry of Communications will be introducing the Electronic Road Pricing (ERP) system this year. It will commence on 1st April 1998 on the East Coast Parkway (ECP), and would be phased in to other parts of Singapore over the next two years. In conjunction with the introduction of the ERP, the vehicle tax structure will be rationalised and a package of road tax rebates will be given.

The changes in road tax structure and the road tax rebate package will result in a revenue loss of about $1 billion for the Government for the next 5 years. This revenue loss will be partly offset by ERP revenue and additional revenue from the release of more COEs over the next 3-5 years. Overall, the Government expects to achieve revenue neutrality for this exercise in about 8 years. Details of the ERP implementation plan, the road tax rebate package and the new vehicle tax structure will be announced by the Minister for Communications next week.

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

Mr Speaker, Sir, the events since July 1997 have shown how quickly the regional environment can turn unfavourable. The policy measures introduced in this budget are based on our assessment of the present state of the Singapore economy and the outlook for the year. They assume that no major changes will occur in the external economic environment which will affect us drastically. But we cannot be certain how the situation will develop. The Government will monitor the regional environment and economic conditions vigilantly, and keep in close touch with the private sector. If the picture changes, we are ready to implement further measures promptly. We have the resources to do so. We cannot totally neutralise the fallout from the regional crisis, but we will do everything possible to offset its impact on Singapore.

Businesses and individuals must prepare themselves for a period of slower growth and uncertainty. They must be ready to respond to unanticipated developments, and not flinch from tough measures where warranted. Our best approach is to acknowledge the realities of the situation, however adverse they may be. This maximises our chances of surmounting the problems. It also demonstrates to investors and analysts our preparedness to tackle problems directly rather than evading them. This adds to confidence in Singaporeans and in Singapore.

If we stay united in tackling the problems which come our way, we will strengthen our competitiveness, ride out the crisis, and emerge stronger than before.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1998 to 31st March, 1999." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 86, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed on what day, Dr Hu?

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Monday, 9th March, 1998, Sir.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 9th March, 1998." - [Mr Wong Kan Seng].

Adjourned accordingly at Nineteen minutes past Six o'clock pm to Monday, 9th March, 1998.

Annexes - ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE FOR NOISE CONTROL IN FACTORIES (Cols. 565 - 568)

Annexes - ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCES FOR CHEMICAL HAZARD CONTROL IN FACTORIES (Cols. 569 - 572)

Annex III - INSTRUMENTS WHERE STAMP DUTY IS ABOLISHED (Cols. 573 - 576)

Annex IV (Cols. 577 - 580)
