# Budget Speech

**Date:** 1999-02-26
**Title:** ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT
**Speakers:** Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance); Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker);

---

## Sitting resumed at 4.00 pm

## Sitting resumed at 4.00 pm

Sitting resumed at 4.00 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

ANNUAL BUDGET STATEMENT

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau (Minister for Finance)

**The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau):**

The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,

That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1999 to 31st March, 2000.

## I REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

I REVIEW OF THE ECONOMY

## ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1998

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1998

In contrast to 1997 when we were relatively unscathed, the Singapore economy experienced the full impact of the regional crisis in 1998. Economic growth last year slowed sharply to 1.5%. On a year-on-year basis, GDP growth has turned negative for the last two quarters of 1998, after registering negative quarter-on-quarter growth for the first three quarters of 1998.

The sharp contraction in regional demand was the key cause of our economic weakness. The crisis-afflicted economies of Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Korea and Hong Kong all suffered recessions in 1998, with significant output declines throughout the year. The economic situation in Japan also worsened considerably, with rising

concerns about its banking system. Through our close economic linkages, problems in these six Asian economies impacted on Singapore, particularly for the more regional-oriented services sectors. For example, overall trade shrank by 7.5% in 1998, visitor arrivals declined by 13%, while activities in the Asian Dollar Market contracted by 10%.

Retrenchments reached an all-time high of 28,300 as rising competitive pressures, coupled with the fall-off in business demand, led to consolidations in business operations. Job insecurity and lower wage growth caused a 0.1% decline in private consumption spending. As demand declined, prices fell and the Consumer Price Index contracted by 0.3% for 1998. A significant fall in domestic asset prices added to the bearish sentiment and exacerbated contractionary pressures associated with the economic decline.

The combination of external and domestic contraction has produced Singapore's second economic recession since independence. Unlike the 1985 recession, the current downturn is primarily a result of the sharp moderation in external demand. In several regional countries, structural economic and financial problems have been complicated by more fundamental political and social factors. These will take a longer time to resolve.

## OUTLOOK FOR 1999

OUTLOOK FOR 1999

Notwithstanding the bleak picture in 1998, some positive signs have emerged over the last three months that the crisis is stabilising. The quick succession of US federal rate cuts and the co-ordinated interest rate reduction initiated by European central banks toward the close of last year helped to allay concerns of a global credit crunch and set the stage for a rapid, albeit fragile, recovery of financial markets in early 1999.

Financial indicators have also stabilised in the region. Interest rates have dropped sharply, improving liquidity and reducing debt-servicing expenses. Confidence has been further boosted, particularly in Korea and Thailand, by credible progress on policy reforms, sizeable trade surpluses and strengthening foreign reserves.

In Singapore, some economic indicators are starting to improve. The Composite Leading Index (CLI), which leads economic activity by about nine months, increased marginally in the third quarter of 1998 and picked up momentum in the fourth quarter, after three consecutive quarters of decline. Increased new orders, lower manufacturing unit labour costs and improvements in business expectations helped fuel the turnaround in the CLI.

There are also nascent signs of a recovery in the global electronics industry. Demand for disk drives and semiconductors is on the upturn, following the corrections in inventory overhang and healthy new orders from the US. The global semiconductor industry is forecast to grow by 15% in 1999, after contracting by 6% last year (Source: Dataquest.). Global shipments of disk drives are expected to rise by 18%, with revenues growing by 7% (Source: TrendFocus).

Despite these positive signs, 1999 may well turn out to be another difficult and challenging year for Singapore. We are in a period of sharp discontinuities. Many uncertainties in the external environment can still unravel, including significant economic, social and political risks. Their outcome will substantially affect our prospects this year.

Global Financial Market Volatility

Financial markets, especially in the emerging countries, are still fragile and prone to bouts of nervousness, as is evident from the recent episode of the Brazilian Real flotation. More importantly, the process of de-leveraging and portfolio re-balancing in response to heightened

volatility and risk aversion in emerging markets is not yet complete. This will restrict the region's much needed access to international capital.

Health of the US Economy

With Japan stagnating and EU adjusting to its new monetary union, the US remains the linchpin of the global economy. Some analysts have remarked that "what happens in the US is make-or-break for the world economy this year". (Financial Times, "Cracks in Wall Street", 7 January 1999, Samuel Brittan.) The current US expansion has entered its 92nd month, the longest peacetime expansion since the 1850s. Rapid above-potential growth, however, has led to some macroeconomic imbalances in the US economy. The savings rate has turned negative. Current account deficits are at a record high. The US economy is widely expected to moderate to slower growth this year. This is viewed as a welcome breather for the overheated economy.

There are, however, several downside risks to this projection for a soft landing in the US economy. For one, a sharp correction in the US stock market may push the US economy into a sharp contraction rather than a benign easing. An estimated 40% of the average US household's net worth is in the stock market. The negative wealth effect from a substantial correction on Wall Street is potentially large. The OECD has estimated that a 20% fall in US equities could lead to a 1% reduction in US GDP as a result of lower consumer spending. (December 1998 OECD Working Paper, "Stock Market Fluctuations and Consumption Behaviour: Some Recent Evidence".) This does not account for the impact on investments or the secondary knock-on effects, particularly on global financial markets, which are likely to be substantial.

Aside from the equity risk, there could also be significant repercussions on the US banking sector and economy if Brazil falls into full-blown recession and drags down the rest of Latin America. The US extended 51% of its total overseas lending and directed 21% of its exports to Latin American countries. In terms of corporate

exposure, 20% of US' earnings from direct investments abroad were derived from Latin America. The linkages are significant and pose a potential threat to the health of the US economy.

Economic Recovery in Japan

Japan accounts for 64% of Asia's output and absorbs about 12% of Asia's exports. It is a key source of capital investments and loan financing for Asia. After last year's package of counter-cyclical policy measures, the Japan Economic Planning Agency (EPA) has estimated that with sufficient stimulus, real GDP growth of 0.5% in FY1999-2000 should be achievable. The Diet has passed a stimulatory budget worth 82 trillion yen for the coming fiscal year. If the Japanese economy recovers as expected by the EPA, it can be the locomotive to pull Asia out of its slump. However, the chances are that economic stagnation will continue for some time. Competitive pressures may undercut export earnings. Rising bond yields have raised long-term borrowing costs, while over-capacity in the manufacturing sector is dragging down profits. Consumer and business sentiments are bearish, weighed down by bankruptcies and high levels of unemployment. These factors make prospects for a near term recovery very uncertain.

Socio-Political Developments in the Region

The success and pace of economic reforms, restructuring and recovery in the region hinges on restoring and maintaining social and political stability in the affected countries. Popular support and social order are pre-requisites to carry out tough reforms, implement rational policies and restore confidence. This is a challenge which all the crisis-hit Asian economies are grappling with.

The biggest uncertainty is Indonesia, where social and political tensions threaten to undermine financial and economic reforms. The coming June

elections will be a milestone in determining how the fragile political and social conditions develop. If the elections proceed smoothly, the newly elected government can ride on its popular mandate to rebuild the economy. However, there are considerable stress points ahead. In particular, the possibility of civil unrest derailing the reform and recovery process is worrisome. An unsettled Indonesia will colour the entire ASEAN region, including Singapore.

Amidst this backdrop of uncertainties, the Ministry of Trade and Industry has maintained a 1999 GDP forecast of between -1% and +1% for Singapore. If the global and regional environment remains benign and none of the major risks I have outlined above materialise, and in particular the situation in the region stabilises and begins to turn around, then it is conceivable that our GDP growth may exceed +1% in 1999. On the other hand, if some of the critical uncertainties in the external environment do unravel, then Singapore will face a more dismal economic backdrop and GDP may contract by more than 1%. On balance, we feel that -1% to +1% is an appropriate forecast in an uncertain situation.

## MANAGING THE CRISIS

MANAGING THE CRISIS Since the regional crisis erupted in July 1997, the Government has monitored its development closely and calibrated our response carefully. At the last Budget, we made some adjustments to keep our business environment competitive, but emphasised a conservative fiscal stance as it was too early to determine the full impact of the crisis. In June 1998, Government implemented a $2 billion off-Budget package of cost-cuts and spending measures. These were not intended as the final package. Regional developments at that juncture remained volatile and we needed to assess how events would develop.

While we deliberated over policy options during this period, we identified

the critical issues: to maintain the framework for continued economic activity; help companies tide over the crisis and minimise unemployment; and enhance our capabilities and competitiveness for future growth.

With these strategic intentions in mind, the Committee on Singapore's Competitiveness (CSC) has recommended comprehensive measures to help Singapore regain its competitiveness, weather the crisis and emerge stronger. Besides keeping Singapore cost competitive and maintaining economic activity, we have to compete more effectively by growing the revenue side of the business equation.

Cut Business Costs

First, it is vital to cut business costs to stay competitive in a period of reduced overall business demand. The Government implemented a comprehensive $10.5 billion cost reduction package in November last year, covering all the key elements of business cost, including wages, rentals, utilities and transportation costs. This was in response to the CSC proposals to help companies survive the crisis and to preserve jobs.

This major package will take time to show results. Many of the cost cutting measures only came into effect on 1st January 1999. It is still too early to assess their beneficial impact on businesses and the economy. Hence, this Budget will not contain any additional major new cost-cutting initiatives, although it will not neglect appropriate rebates to individuals, which had not been included in the November package.

The cost reduction package has received the wholehearted support of Singaporeans. Workers have accepted the 15% reduction in overall wages. The spirit of tripartism is strong and resilient in Singapore.

We have always emphasised policies to reduce stickiness in wages and improve the flexibility in the labour market. We have progressively built up a flexi-wage component over the years, and avoided

restrictive mechanisms such as minimum wages, wage mark-ups or job security legislation. This has given us unique flexibility to adjust our wages quickly in the current downturn, to preserve our competitiveness. This has not only reduced business costs but also helped arrest the fall-off in labour demand. Without the necessary wage adjustments, even more jobs would have been lost and the unemployment rate would have risen to more than the 3.2% actually registered in 1998.

Our cost-cutting package has been well received by both analysts and investors. A recent Merrill Lynch report commented that as a result of the cost-cutting measures, "unit labour costs should plunge back to the 1992-93 level, substantially boosting the economy's cost competitiveness". Another report by ABN-AMRO noted that "Singapore is demonstrating that with the package it can adjust its prices and costs quickly. The package will help boost confidence in the economy". Investors too have reacted positively. The substantial cost savings, particularly from the CPF cut, will help businesses ride out this difficult period. The package has also helped the Economic Development Board (EDB) convince investors that Singapore offers them an attractive business proposition, even in the midst of the recession.

Ensure Access to Working Capital

Second, it is necessary to improve access to working capital. Government has significantly enhanced the Local Enterprise Finance Scheme (LEFS). This includes raising the overall credit line available, increasing the maximum loan quantum per company and widening the scope of the scheme to cover more local enterprises. In addition, EDB and the Productivity and Standards Board (PSB) have been active in helping participating financial institutions obtain a better understanding of the loan applicant's business case.

Feedback indicates that these changes to LEFS have met the needs of local companies. Between April and December

1998, more than $470 million of LEFS loans were approved to local enterprises. In particular, short-term LEFS loans increased by up to 600% during this period, reflecting the short-term cash needs of local companies.

To strengthen the equity base of promising local enterprises (PLEs) and help them enhance their capabilities and growth, EDB will step up the pace of its co-investment in PLEs. It will take up short-term equity stakes of up to 30% in these companies. After an appropriate period, EDB will exit from these investments, for example, by selling its shares back to the PLEs. This enhanced co-investment programme will support companies in both the manufacturing and hub services sectors.

Market Diversification

Third, we need to diversify our export markets. Singapore needs to develop strong trade and business linkages to all parts of the global economy. This will make our economy more resilient, and help to offset cyclical slowdowns in any particular region or industry.

The Trade Development Board (TDB) will be adopting a three-pronged approach to ensure that Singapore maintains its competitive edge in the global trading arena. This will involve accessing emerging markets, expanding demand into traditional markets such as the US and EU, and consolidating resources in regional markets.

To strengthen market access, TDB has expanded the scope of its Trade Development Incentive (TDI) to help companies promote trade and participate in specialised programmes such as international franchising and brand marketing. Since FY96, TDB has approved some 250 cases amounting to $11 million under the TDI. Government has allocated an additional $20 million to TDI over the next two years.

TDB will also be stepping up its market development efforts to increase companies' awareness of opportunities

further afield. In 1998, around 800 companies participated in TDB's business missions and international exhibitions. This year, TDB will be organising some 100 trade missions and international fairs. About 30 such events will be targeted at the traditional growth markets, such as the US and EU. Another 40 events will be targeted at emerging markets in East Europe, South Asia, Middle East, Latin America and Africa.

Investment Promotion

Next, we need to step up investment promotion to sustain and upgrade the flow of investments into knowledge-driven activities and create challenging jobs for Singaporeans.

To spur more investments in manufacturing and services, Government has re-introduced the Liberalised Investment Allowance Scheme (LIAS). This provides a 30% across-the-board investment allowance for expenditure on productive equipment. In addition, Government has also allowed for a higher, discretionary allowance of 50%, for approved investments that meet certain requirements, such as higher contribution to value-added.

In 1999, EDB will intensify its investment promotion efforts, including stationing more officers overseas in the US, Japan and Europe, in order to achieve its target of $7.5 billion in manufacturing investments and $1.5 billion in total business spending this year.

In line with the vision set out by the CSC for Singapore to develop into a globally competitive knowledge economy, EDB has also recently unveiled its Industry 21 (I21) Plan. The vision of I21 is for Singapore to be a vibrant and robust global hub for knowledge-driven industries. EDB will develop Singapore's manufacturing and exportable services sectors with a strong emphasis on technology, innovation and capabilities. Reflecting this shift, jobs created will have a higher proportion of skilled workers.

Capabilities Building

Finally, capabilities building. We will use the crisis period to upgrade both our physical infrastructure and human capital, so that we can compete in the global economic arena on the basis of world-class capabilities, while managing our cost competitiveness.

Education and economic infrastructure will continue to remain a priority in Government's development expenditure programme this year. To build economic infrastructure, $1.9 billion worth of new development projects were approved in the off-Budget measures in June 1998. These included major projects such as the incorporation of IT into primary and secondary schools, upgrading of university facilities and further investment in Singapore ONE.

In FY99, Government will continue to invest in economic capabilities for the long term. We will increase development spending by a substantial $1.2 billion to $13.9 billion. This is the highest development budget to date. We will continue to invest more in education, up from $1.7 billion to $2.2 billion, to provide better schools, campus infrastructure and facilities, teaching equipment and to roll out the IT Master Plan. These education projects will prepare our next generation for the challenge of a knowledge-based economy.

We will also spend more to increase our industrial land stock with on-going reclamation at Jurong Island, Tuas View and Changi East. Likewise, we will increase spending on rail infrastructure, including the North-East MRT line and the Changi MRT extension.

Another key challenge is upgrading our manpower to keep workers employable. With the rapid pace of economic restructuring, the current unemployment can turn into structural unemployment over time, as unemployed persons may be mismatched with new job vacancies because they do not possess the right skills.

This is a pressing issue. A disproportionate share of retrenched local workers in 1998 were older than 40 years of age and with less than secondary education. The duration of unemployment has also increased to 8.9 weeks in mid-1998, compared with 7.5 weeks a year earlier. As long-term unemployed workers lose their job skills and become stigmatised by employers, this could lead to increasing and persistent unemployment rates, a phenomenon seen in European unemployment for the last 15 years.

We must press on with Continuous Education and Training (CET) and skills upgrading to tackle this problem of structural unemployment. While the threat is more immediate for older and lower-skilled workers, it is no less urgent for our executives and professionals. They too must hone their skills and expertise in order to develop new capabilities and anticipate the rapidly changing demands in the workplace. As such, our CET plans encompass the entire spectrum of the workforce - from young to old, and from semi-skilled workers to managers and professionals.

Specific Government initiatives launched under the CET umbrella include the following: an initial budget of $120 million pledged for the expansion of the Skills Redevelopment Programme which pays special attention to unskilled and semi-skilled mid-career workers; and $800 million for the Initiatives in New Technology (INTECH) grant scheme targeted at manpower development in leading edge technologies, of which $50 million has been earmarked for EDB's new Training and Attachment Programme (TAP) which helps fund the cost of training new engineering graduates recruited by MNCs at their overseas plants.

In addition, the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) is working out a broad funding mechanism to support the development of national manpower capabilities as part of the Manpower 21 (M21) exercise. The M21 Report will be announced in due course. Programmes in the pipeline

include setting up a Skills Certification System to establish a skills progression path and skills acquisition benchmark for the workforce; the Strategic Manpower Conversion Programme to incentivise the deployment of under-utilised professional manpower into strategic sectors with skills shortages; and supporting learning providers to create and augment the infrastructure and curriculum for lifelong learning.

Our aim is to build up a national framework for continuous enhancement of knowledge and skills. The goal is to educate, train and retrain workers so that they can continue to take on new jobs or enlarged duties. This is the essence of lifelong employability.

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

1999 is likely to be another difficult year. Despite signs of improvement in the external environment, the outlook remains uncertain.

The CSC has set out the key thrusts to help Singapore overcome the crisis and prepare for competition beyond. We must work together to implement them vigorously, but retain the flexibility to adjust our tactics if the external environment changes again. The benefits of the cost cuts will flow through to the Singapore economy and businesses this year. The key now is to grow our business revenues by expanding our export markets and sustaining investments. To underpin these key thrusts, we need to build up our economic capabilities, both in terms of infrastructure and manpower skills.

To achieve this, the workers, management and Government must all work together. Then, we will weather this difficult period, and realise our vision for Singapore as an advanced and globally competitive knowledge economy.

## II THE FY99 BUDGET

II THE FY99 BUDGET Mr Speaker, Sir, I move on now to the Budget for Fiscal Year 1999.

## EXPENDITURE POLICY

EXPENDITURE POLICY

Since the Budget Debate last year, the Government has responded to the regional crisis with two packages of stimulus measures to stabilise the Singapore economy. In June 1998, I announced a $2 billion off-budget package which carried an impact of $1.6 billion on our FY98 budget. In November 1998, just three months ago, DPM Lee presented to this House a $10.5 billion cost-cutting package. This was in response to recommendations of the Committee on Singapore's Competitiveness. The package has an impact on the FY99 budget of $1.8 billion.

We did not wait until the FY99 Budget to implement these measures because timely response to the unfolding regional crisis is critical. Our approach is to monitor developments closely and respond with measures to maintain the competitiveness of the economy relative to our export competitors. The measures announced were designed to lower overall business costs. The aim is to help businesses tide over this difficult period and to keep as many people employed as possible.

While we grapple with the immediate problems of the economic slowdown, we must not lose sight of longer term challenges. After the region recovers, our competitors in Asia will emerge stronger and fitter if they undertake the economic reforms and restructuring needed to pull them out of the economic crisis. We must therefore resist the temptation to overdraw on our reserves to offset unavoidable wage cuts, or allow ourselves to succumb to the lure of welfarism which we cannot reverse later on. Instead, we should be taking steps to enhance our capability for long-term competitiveness.

Before I move on to present details of the FY99 expenditure programme, allow me to recapitulate briefly the basic tenets of our expenditure policy. Our aim is to foster the growth of the private sector by keeping the public sector lean and trim, whilst maintaining a high quality of public

service. We will live within our means by ensuring that budgets are balanced over the long term. Expenditure will be focused on fostering future growth by investing heavily on developing our human resources, in economic infrastructure and other areas which yield lasting returns.

I will now highlight the salient features of this year's expenditure budget.

## FY99 EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES

FY99 EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES

At 20.5% of GDP, total expenditure in FY99 is estimated at $29.2 billion. This is an increase of 5.6% or $1.5 billion over FY98. The increase is mainly due to a rise in development expenditure, which I will elaborate later.

As in previous years, the largest allocations go to defence and education at 25% and 19% of total Government spending respectively. As security provides the basis for our nation's economic growth and prosperity, it is important that we maintain a strong defence capability. Defence spending will therefore continue at the FY98 level of $7.3 billion, accounting for 5.1% of GDP.

As the future of Singapore will depend on the quality of our human resources, we will continue to invest more in education. For FY99, we have budgeted $5.7 billion for expenditure on education. Education's share of GDP has increased steadily from 3.0% in FY97, to 3.4% in FY98 and to just under 4.0% of GDP in FY99. Our medium-term target allocation for education is 4.0% of GDP.

Spending by the Ministry of Manpower to promote manpower development has almost tripled from $58 million in FY97 to $170 million in FY98, and is allocated $150 million in FY99. In order to sustain growth against rising competition, our economy will have to constantly restructure towards higher value-added economic activities. The importance of upgrading and re-training our workers to ensure employability in an increasingly knowledge- based economy cannot be over emphasised.

Overall, the social and community services sector is allocated the largest share of 39% of the budget, increasing its share over FY98, on account of higher spending on education and public housing. In the same order as last year, the security sector is next with 32% of the total budget, and economic and infrastructure development comes in third with 19%.

Operating expenditure

Operating expenditure is budgeted at $15.2 billion, a small increase of $300 million or 2% compared to FY98. Half of this increase is on account of a re-distribution of defence spending from development to operating expenditure. The other half of the increase is due to a central provision of $125 million kept by MOF to provide for new Government programmes which might arise in the course of the year.

Due to the policy of wage restraint in the civil service, manpower cost will remain at $3 billion, despite providing for a net increase of 4,400 posts. The main increases are some 5,000 teaching posts and 400 posts for immigration and prison officers. This is partially offset by the deletion of some 900 posts in PWD, with its corporatisation from 1st April 1999.

While running costs on the whole will rise by some $350 million to $14.0 billion, transfers will dip slightly by $50 million to $1.2 billion due largely to an extraordinary contribution of $79 million in FY98 to NTUC and ITE for the Skills Redevelopment Programme. Still, the level of transfers remained some 18% higher when compared to FY97. Subsidies to restructured hospitals take up about half of transfers, while a sum of $170 million is allocated to public housing subsidies such as subventions to town councils. Another $120 million is allocated to MCD for disbursement to community self-help groups, voluntary welfare organisations and needy individuals under various financial assistance schemes.

As a share of GDP, operating expenditure will rise to 10.7%, up from 10.4% in FY98 and 9.7% in FY97. This is largely

the result of slowing GDP growth, as operating expenditure has not risen substantially in absolute terms and is practically held at a standstill compared to FY98. It has been our policy to constrain operating expenditure to grow in tandem with, and no faster than GDP growth, in order to keep public sector expansion in check. However, during periods of economic slowdown, we can accept a rise in the operating expenditure's share of GDP so as to avoid a degradation of basic public services and to support additional expenditure for early recruitment of teachers and other staff.

Development expenditure

Total development spending will amount to $13.9 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion from $12.7 billion in FY98. However, compared to FY97, the FY99 development budget is a hefty $5 billion or 50% more. In fact, Government has been increasing development spending over the last 5 years. Development spending has grown on average by about 30% each year since FY94. The FY99 development budget is about 3.5 times higher than development spending 5 years ago in FY94, when it amounted to only $4.0 billion.

I should point out that the large sums allocated to development spending is not to pump-prime the economy because this would have limited effect as we are a small open economy. Instead, our aim is to invest in strategic development projects, especially those with long gestation periods, such as land reclamation and IT in education. These are investments which would reap benefits several years down the road.

Against this backdrop, every sector of development spending has grown compared to FY97. The largest increase is spending on the social and community services sector, which has doubled from $3.1 billion in FY97 to $6.0 billion in FY99. In percentage terms, the social and community services sector is allocated the largest share of 43% of the development budget. The other major allocation goes to the economic and infrastructure development sector at 34%.

Spending on education increased from $1.0 billion in FY97 to $1.7 billion in FY98, and to $2.2 billion in FY99. This is a 31% increase over FY98. Of this, more than $1 billion goes towards development of schools and campuses, and another $350 million on IT Masterplan and IT projects in schools and tertiary institutions. A provision of $170 million is set aside to build residential and hostel facilities in schools and campuses, and $250 million for new projects comprising mostly buildings and further IT investment in tertiary institutions.

Spending on public housing increased from $850 million in FY97 to $1.9 billion in FY98, and to $2.3 billion in FY99. Deficit financing to HDB accounts for $1.2 billion, mainly due to a surge in demand under the CPF Housing Grant Scheme. Continuing HDB upgrading is allocated $430 million and compensation under the Selective En-bloc Redevelopment Scheme is allocated $370 million. The $400 million increase in public housing spending is mainly due to increased provisions of $150 million for compensation under the Selective En-bloc Redevelopment Scheme and $270 million for deficit financing to HDB.

Spending on environment has also risen steadily from $650 million in FY97 to $1.0 billion in FY98, and is set to level off at $980 million in FY99. The Fourth Refuse Incineration Plant at Tuas accounts for half of this sum, while the other half goes to improvements and expansion of sewerage and drainage facilities.

The economic and infrastructure development sector no longer occupies first place in development spending because of the large increase in allocation to the social and community services sector. Nevertheless, the sector is still allocated a sizeable sum of $4.7 billion. This is lower than spending in FY98 by $220 million, but 23% higher than the $3.8 billion spent in FY97. The sector is led by strong spending on communications and trade and industry projects at $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion respectively.

The North-East MRT Line and the Changi MRT extension projects account for two-thirds of the $1.8 billion development budget for communications. In all, rail projects account for $1.4 billion, while another $270 million goes to road improvements and development of bus interchanges. Provision is also made for continuing reclamation at Changi East.

Spending on trade and industry projects has slipped by $350 million compared to FY98. However, this does not reflect a lower commitment by Government, but rather the result of huge savings in lower tender prices for recent reclamation projects awarded for Jurong Island Phase III and reclamation at Changi East. More than half of MTI's development budget will go to reclamation at Jurong Island, Tuas View, Changi East and Sentosa Cove. Spending on these reclamation projects will increase from $810 million last year to $930 million in FY99. Other major projects in this year's budget are the Economic Development Assistance Scheme, the Tourism 21 Plan to re-develop Chinatown attractions, the Mega Exhibition Centre and the Singapore ONE project.

Spending on the general services and security sectors accounts for the remaining allocation at 12% and 11% respectively of the development budget. The allocation for general services will see an increase of $730 million from FY98. This is largely accounted for by $500 million to be held centrally by MOF for new projects, which Ministries may embark on in the course of the year, and $260 million more for the New Supreme Court building project.

Spending on internal security is expected to remain at the same level as the last two years. Provision is made for on-going projects such as the Civil Defence Shelters Programme, and new complexes for the Ministry of Home Affairs, Police Headquarters, Singapore Civil Defence Force Headquarters and Traffic Police Headquarters. Provisions are also made for the redevelopment of the Changi Prison Complex and Command Control and Communication Systems to

improve the operational capability of the Police, Singapore Civil Defence Force and Central Narcotics Bureau.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: Order. I suspend the sitting and will take the Chair again at 5.00 pm.

## Sitting accordingly suspended at

Sitting accordingly suspended at

## 4.48 pm until 5.00 pm

4.48 pm until 5.00 pm

## Sitting resumed at 5.00 pm

## Sitting resumed at 5.00 pm

Sitting resumed at 5.00 pm

## [Mr Speaker in the Chair]

[Mr Speaker in the Chair]

## III REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

III REVENUE AND TAX CHANGES

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Mr Speaker, Sir, let me now turn to the fiscal position and the proposed tax changes.

Revenue collection is projected to fall from $27.2 billion in FY98 to $24.1 billion in FY99, a $3.1 billion or 11.4% decline. As a percentage of GDP, revenue collection will decline from 18.9% in FY98 to 16.9% in FY99. As operating and development expenditures in FY99 are budgeted at $29.2 billion or 20.5% of GDP, an operating deficit of $5.1 billion or 3.5% of GDP is projected for FY99.

The fall in operating revenue is attributable to slower economic growth expected in FY99 and the revenue impact of the various off-budget measures announced by the Government to stimulate the economy. In particular, the $10.5 billion cost-cutting package announced in November last year to reduce business cost will have a negative impact of about $1.8 billion on the FY99 budget balance.

The budget deficit will be funded entirely from surpluses accumulated by the Government in its current term of office. As I have noted earlier, our fiscal policy is to live within our means and aim for a balanced budget in normal years, accumulating surpluses in good years of strong economic growth and drawing against reserves in years of economic downturn.

We should now allow the effects of the packages of stimulus and cost-cutting measures already announced to work through the system before we decide whether further measures are necessary. But even as we adopt short-term measures to deal with current difficulties, we have to keep our eyes on the future, develop the infrastructure necessary for our future growth, enhance our capabilities and put in place a conducive framework for businesses and individuals in Singapore to thrive. Only then will we be well placed when the region recovers from the economic crisis.

I will therefore be introducing changes to some tax incentives to promote the development of certain high value-added sectors of our economy. At the same time, Government is mindful of the difficulties faced by individuals and households in the current economic downturn. The cost-cutting package announced in November 1998 was focused mainly on reducing business costs. I will therefore be announcing several measures to help individuals later in my speech.

Let me now deal with tax changes for companies.

## TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

TAX CHANGES FOR COMPANIES

Corporate Tax Rebate

As announced in November last year, the Government will give a 10% rebate on corporate income tax, excluding Singapore dividends, for the Year of Assessment 1999.

Tax Incentives to Promote the Bond Market

In the FY98 Budget, I announced several tax incentives to promote the development of an active bond market. The incentives included tax exemption on interest income earned by non-residents from qualifying debt securities and on fee income derived by financial institutions from arranging debt securities in Singapore. I am now pleased to announce further refinements to these bond market tax incentives.

Currently, tax exemption on interest from qualifying debt securities paid to non-residents only applies if the non-residents do not have permanent establishments in Singapore. To facilitate a wider distribution of qualifying debt securities, I have decided to extend the tax exemption to include non-residents who have permanent establishments in Singapore, provided that such non-residents do not purchase the securities using funds from their Singapore operations.

Qualifying debt securities are currently defined as debt securities which are substantially arranged by financial institutions in Singapore. In some cases, this condition gave rise to uncertainties about the availability of the incentives. This is because the global character of institutions and markets makes it necessary for the arrangers to use staff based outside Singapore, or employed by affiliated companies, to successfully execute the transaction. To rectify this situation, I have decided to create an "Approved Bond Intermediary" (ABI) scheme to complement the existing regime. Under the ABI scheme, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) will evaluate a financial institution's debt origination and trading capabilities in Singapore on an overall basis. Once a financial institution has been awarded ABI status, all debt securities lead managed by it would be treated as "qualifying debt securities". There would be no need for an ABI to satisfy, on a transaction-by-transaction basis, the current test of "substantial arrangement in Singapore". This will enable ABIs to provide their clients with greater certainty regarding our tax incentives, and will also serve to emphasize Singapore's goal of encouraging financial institutions to increase their debt market capabilities here.

The above refinements will be effective from 27th February 1999 up to 27th February 2003. ABI status may be awarded to financial institutions upon application to MAS. MAS will publish further details in a circular.

Tax Exemption on Income Earned by Primary Dealers in Singapore Government Securities (SGS) from Trading in SGS

The Singapore Government Securities or SGS market is a key element in Singapore's domestic debt market. To develop a robust bond market, it is important to first establish a liquid SGS market to define a benchmark yield curve to which private issuers can make reference when pricing their bond issues.

Currently, income earned by all financial institutions from trading in debt securities, including SGS, is taxed at a concessionary tax rate of 10%. Government recognises that Primary Dealers play an essential role in SGS markets, by fulfilling the role of market makers and driving the process of price discovery and trading liquidity. To encourage more financial institutions to take on the role of SGS Primary Dealers and to provide a significant incentive commensurate with the obligations undertaken by SGS Primary Dealers, I have decided to exempt from tax income derived by SGS Primary Dealers from trading in SGS. The incentive will be effective from 27th February 1999, for a period of four years.

Tax Exemption Scheme for Syndicated Facilities

The Tax Exemption Scheme for Syndicated Facilities was introduced in 1983 to encourage financial institutions to base their syndication activities in Singapore. The scheme has operated successfully and there has been a steady increase in syndication activities in Singapore since its introduction. Last year, I announced that the scheme would be extended for a further five years until 2003.

Currently, MAS approves each syndicated facility on a case-by-case basis. To give arrangers upfront certainty on whether a facility qualifies for tax exemption, I am introducing an automated procedure. Under the automated procedure, facilities which meet certain defined criteria will automatically be

granted tax exemption, without the need to obtain case-by-case approval from MAS. The automated procedure will take effect from 27th February 1999. MAS will publish the details of the procedure in a circular.

Tax Incentive to Promote Boutique Fund Management

Since the early nineties, fund management activity has grown rapidly. Compared to 1991, there has been a five-fold increase in the amount of funds managed in Singapore to $124 billion in 1997. This is expected to grow further, despite the Asian economic crisis. Many large and internationally reputable fund management companies have established a presence in Singapore.

The Banking and Finance Subcommittee of the Committee on Singapore's Competitiveness has, however, recommended that Singapore should also encourage the growth of boutique fund managers. Boutique fund managers are primarily indigenous fund management companies set up and run by professionals who typically have considerable experience in the fund management industry.

Nurturing boutique fund managers will create more diversity and also contribute towards the growth of our local fund management industry. I have therefore decided to exempt from tax, the qualifying income derived by foreign investors from funds managed by qualifying boutique fund managers. The types of income qualifying for exemption will be the same as that under the Approved Fund Manager scheme. The scheme will be effective for a period of five years from 27th February 1999 and will be administered by MAS. MAS will be releasing the details separately.

Tax Deduction for General Provisions Made by Finance Companies

Since 1997, finance companies have been given tax deduction for general provisions made against their loan and investment portfolios. This is subject to an annual limit of the lower of 25% of qualifying profits or 0.5% of qualifying loans

and investments, as well as an overall limit of 2% of qualifying loans and investments. This has encouraged finance companies to make adequate general provisions to cushion against unexpected losses in their operations.

The Singapore economic environment has, however, been adversely affected by the downturn in the regional economies. In view of this, it is prudent for finance companies to build up their level of general provisions further. To encourage them to do so, the annual limits of 25% of qualifying profits and 0.5% of qualifying loans and investments will be temporarily suspended for a period of two years with effect from Year of Assessment 1999. In addition, the overall limit of 2% of qualifying loans and investments will be raised to 3% from Year of Assessment 1999. These changes will provide finance companies greater flexibility in making general provisions to cushion against potential losses that could arise owing to the poor economic environment. This will strengthen the financial position of finance companies, and the overall soundness and stability of the financial system.

To qualify for the above concessions, the finance company must satisfy the existing statutory minimum capital funds requirement of $50 million and minimum capital adequacy ratio of 12%, as prescribed under the Finance Companies Act.

I will now move on to corporate tax changes for other sectors of the economy.

Tax Exemption for Global OHQs

The Operational Headquarters (OHQ) scheme was introduced in 1986 to promote the services sector as one of the twin engines of growth. Under the OHQ scheme, companies awarded OHQ status will enjoy a 10% concessionary tax rate on their qualifying income. At present, most companies awarded OHQ status have been based in Singapore to service the Asia Pacific region. To encourage companies to locate and perform their headquarters functions in Singapore to

service network companies worldwide, I have decided to enhance the existing OHQ incentive by granting tax exemption to OHQs which perform at least one substantive global function in Singapore. The incentive will be granted for a maximum period of ten years, and will take effect from Year of Assessment 2000. Companies may apply to EDB for this incentive after Budget Day.

Approved Contract Manufacturer and Trader (ACMT) Scheme

Contract manufacturers play a key role in our manufacturing sector. Some of our homegrown contract manufacturers have become global players. These companies usually contract to perform value-added manufacturing activities on semi-finished goods consigned to them, and then export the finished goods to their overseas clients. In recent years, contract manufacturing has become more complex. For example, instead of exporting the finished goods, it is not uncommon for contract manufacturers to be asked by their overseas clients to deliver the finished goods to customers in Singapore. This local delivery is considered a taxable supply under our GST laws. However, in some instances, the overseas clients to whom the finished goods belong do not designate an agent in Singapore to account for the GST on their behalf in respect of the local delivery. The contract manufacturers in such a situation would have to bear the GST on local delivery and have no recourse to claim it back. This GST burden could make our contract manufacturers less competitive internationally.

To help our local contract manufacturers remain competitive, I have decided to introduce a scheme, called the Approved Contract Manufacturer and Trader (ACMT) scheme, to relieve contract manufacturers whose businesses are substantially with overseas clients, of this GST burden. Under this scheme, the local delivery of the finished goods to the customers of the overseas client and the fees for the value-added activities on the goods will be

deemed to be outside the scope of GST and GST will not be chargeable. Instead, the overseas client's customers who purchase and receive the goods in Singapore will account for GST by way of a "reverse charge". Besides contract manufacturers, this scheme will be made available to traders who also engage in value-adding activities substantially for overseas clients, and face the same GST problem as the contract manufacturers on their local deliveries. The scheme will be administered jointly by IRAS, EDB and TDB. Further details of the scheme will be released separately by the administering agencies.

Waiver of GST for Goods Removed from Bonded Warehouse

The development of a logistics sector with extensive networks is critical to our continued growth as a global trade centre and hub port. To encourage logistics operators to expand their business in Singapore and use Singapore as a base for their operations, I have decided to waive the GST chargeable on goods removed by traders registered with the Major Exporter Scheme (MES) from bonded warehouses operated by logistics companies. With this waiver, MES traders will be able to use their MES status to remove goods from bonded warehouses operated by logistics companies free of GST.

The GST waiver will remove an existing disadvantage faced by local logistics companies, vis-a-vis overseas suppliers of the same goods, as under the current situation, MES traders by virtue of their MES status do not have to pay GST upfront when they import the goods directly from overseas suppliers.

Extension of Tax Incentive for Exhibition Organisers to Cover International Conferences

The staging of international conferences in Singapore complements the many international exhibitions and trade fairs currently held here. Together, they play the important role of enhancing Singapore as the hub for knowledge and trade exchange for the international

business community. I have therefore decided to extend the tax concession granted to approved exhibition organisers to companies organising and managing international conferences in Singapore. The approved companies will be granted a concessionary tax rate of not less than 10% on their incremental income. This will provide further impetus to develop Singapore into an International Exhibition and Conference City. The extension to the tax concession will take effect from Year of Assessment 2000.

Tax Exemption for Floating Production Storage Offloading Vessel and Floating Storage Offloading Vessel

Singapore has come a long way in developing as a maritime centre. According to United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), we have moved from the 19th position in 1991 to become the 13th most important maritime nation. Today, a critical mass of established international shipping companies exists in Singapore, providing a wide spectrum of shipping services.

To support Singapore's drive towards higher value-added activities in the shipping sector, I have decided to extend the existing Approved International Shipping Enterprise Scheme to cover income derived from the operation of Floating Production Storage Offloading vessel and Floating Storage Offloading vessel (or FPSO/FSO) in Singapore. These are primarily crude oil tanker vessels which have been specially converted for deployment in the offshore field for production and storage of crude oil. The operation of FPSOs and FSOs therefore requires the application of both advanced maritime and technology-driven expertise. The development of the FPSO/FSO industry in Singapore will not only serve to broaden the scope of shipping activities in Singapore, it will also complement Singapore's role as the world's third largest oil refinery and trading centre.

To qualify for the incentive, the company must have substantial operations and possess a team of professional expertise in Singapore. The incentive will

be granted for a period of ten years and will take effect from Year of Assessment 2000. TDB will administer this incentive.

Extension of One-Year Accelerated Depreciation Allowance Scheme to Replacement of Diesel-Driven Vehicles

With a growing vehicle population in Singapore, total emissions from vehicles will creep up over time. This will adversely affect our ambient air quality and may become a health hazard. We therefore need to impose strict emission standards on new vehicles and at the same time, reduce the number of older vehicles on the roads.

Diesel-driven commercial goods vehicles and buses are allowed to be used on the roads for up to twenty years. Old and inefficient diesel-driven vehicles are a major source of pollution as they generate a disproportionately large amount of particulates and other pollutants that are harmful to health.

The cost of replacing an old vehicle with a new one is high. As a result, older vehicles are generally not taken off the roads before the end of their statutory lifespan. One way of encouraging owners of older vehicles to do so is to provide a tax incentive to partially defray the high cost of replacing vehicles.

I have therefore decided that with effect from 27th February 1999, the one-year accelerated depreciation allowance scheme would be extended to the purchase of new commercial goods vehicles and buses, on the condition that the new vehicle is replacing an old diesel-driven vehicle which was registered before 1st January 1991, and which either has at least one year of valid COE left or is eligible for COE renewal. Ministry of the Environment will administer the scheme.

## PERSONAL TAX CHANGES

PERSONAL TAX CHANGES

Personal Tax Rebate

In 1997, the Government gave a 10% across-the-board rebate on individual income tax as a reward for individual effort and to share the budget surplus. Last year, despite the worsening

economic conditions, the Government gave a 5% rebate on individual income tax to provide a measure of relief to taxpayers. Although some signs of stability have emerged, there still remain critical uncertainties in the external environment. Nevertheless, I have decided to restore the personal tax rebate to 10% for the Year of Assessment 1999, similar to 1997, in order to help taxpayers tide over this temporary difficult period. The estimated revenue loss to Government is $275 million.

Following the GST-related changes made to personal income tax, currently about 65% of individuals no longer pay income tax and therefore would not benefit from the income tax rebate. To extend help to these individuals, the Government will grant the same rebates on HDB rentals and town council Service and Conservancy (S&C) charges as in 1997 to citizens staying in rented and owner-occupied HDB flats. The rebates will be as follows:

a) One-Room Flats

Two months' net rent and three months' net S&C charges. The rental rebates will be made on 1st June and 1st September, and the S&C rebates will be made on 1st June, 1st September and 1st December this year.

b) Two-Room Flats

One month's net rent and three months' net S&C charges. The rental rebate will be made on 1st June, and the S&C rebates will be made on 1st June, 1st September and 1st December this year.

c) Three-Room Flats

Three months' net S&C charges. The S&C rebates will be made on 1st June, 1st September and 1st December this year.

d) Four-Room Flats

One month's net S&C charges. The S&C rebate will be made on 1st June this year.

e) Five-Room Flats

One month's net S&C charges, to be made on 1st June this year.

The estimated cost of these rental and S&C rebates is $39 million. The rebates will be given after deducting the GST offset rebates, the S&C grants associated with the utilities rebates and a special S&C monthly rebate, which I will now elaborate.

Special Rebate on Town Council Service and Conservancy Charges

To provide further help to tide over the present difficulties, Government will give a special rebate to Singaporeans living in HDB flats through town councils. The town councils will offer a one-off additional monthly rebate for citizen households living in 1 to 5-room flats for a period of one year, starting from 1st April 1999. The special rebates, which are about 10% of current gross S&C charges, are as follows: $2 per month for 1-room flats, $3 per month for 2-room flats, $4 per month for 3-room flats, $5 per month for 4-room flats and $6 per month for 5-room flats. These rebates will cost Government an additional $40 million.

Extension of GST-Related Offsets and Rebates for Two Years

In view of the difficult economic conditions, Government had announced in November last year that the transitional measures in the GST offset package, consisting of rental and S&C rebates for 1 to 3-room HDB households, would be extended by two more years. The rental and S&C rebates are as follows:

a) Rental Rebates

For 1-room flats: a rental rebate of $12 per month.

For 2-room flats: a rental rebate of $8 per month.

b) Rebates for S&C Charges

For 1-room flats: $8 per month.

For 2-room flats: $7 per month.

For 3-room flats: $4 per month.

The estimated cost of these rebates is $22 million per year.

Low income households which are not living in HDB flats can continue to receive help from the Citizens Consultative Committees (CCCs) Assistance Scheme, which was set up in 1994 when GST was implemented.

Offset Package for Utilities Rates Revision

The Government had in June 1997 announced the revision of water tariffs and the water conservation tax to uniform flat rates for all users. There have so far been two increases in July 1997 and July 1998. The next increase is scheduled for 1st July 1999. Despite the economic downturn, we must press on with our water conservation efforts and raise water tariffs and conservation tax as planned.

The water tariffs, including conservation tax, will increase by 15.3 cents to 24.4 cents per cubic metre for domestic consumers. The non-domestic water rate will increase by 5.8 cents per cubic metre to reach the target rate of $1.52 per cubic metre. As part of the water conservation effort, the waterborne fee will also be raised as scheduled, by 5 cents per cubic metre for domestic consumers and 9 cents per cubic metre for non-domestic consumers with effect from 1st July 1999.

The Government will continue to help lower income households cope with the increases in water charges. In 1997 and 1998, a package of annual utilities rebates and monthly S&C grants were given to citizens living in 1 to 4-room HDB flats to offset the increases in electricity and water rates. To help the lower income groups cope with the economic crisis, the Government has already announced in November 1998 that the package of utilities rebates and monthly S&C grants given in 1997 and 1998 will be continued for another two years. The cost to Government is estimated at $73 million per year.

As water charges are scheduled to increase further in July 1999, the Government has decided to double the utilities rebates from $100 to $200 for 1 to 3-room HDB flats and from $50 to $100

for 4-room HDB flats in 1999. This will cost Government an additional $41 million, and is more than sufficient to offset the increase in water costs for lower income households.

The utilities rebates will be credited against the utilities bills of eligible households for the month of September which are payable in October. The balance of the rebate not consumed within the month will be carried over until it is fully used up. Grants for S&C charges to HDB lessees and tenants, ranging from $36 to $66 a year, will continue to be given. The grants will start from July 1999 and will be $3 per month for 1-room flats, $4 per month for 2-room flats, $5.50 per month for 3-room flats and $4 per month for 4-room flats. Those lower income groups which do not live in HDB flats and hence are unable to benefit from the utilities rebates and S&C grants can obtain help from the CCC Assistance Scheme.

Tax Deduction of Certain Educational Expenses for Individuals

For Singapore to transform successfully into a knowledge-based economy, the need for continual training and skills upgrading cannot be over emphasised. Besides facilitating and providing funding for numerous training schemes, the Government would also like to encourage individuals to take the initiative to improve their skills and knowledge. Currently, a tax deduction of up to $2,000 is allowed for actual expenses incurred by individuals in pursuit of further academic and professional qualifications, or vocational qualifications related to their business, trade or employment. I have decided to raise the tax deduction cap to $2,500, to give further emphasis to the importance of lifelong learning and skills upgrading. The higher deduction cap of $2,500 will take effect from Year of Assessment 1999. The revenue loss is estimated to be $4 million.

## OTHER TAX CHANGES

OTHER TAX CHANGES

Property Tax Rebate

The 55% property tax rebate on industrial and commercial properties, first

announced in the June 1998 off-budget measures, will be extended by another year to 30th June 2000.

Stamp Duty for Contract Notes

As announced in the November 1998 cost-cutting package, the suspension of stamp duty on contract notes for share transaction will now be extended by another year to 29th June 2000.

## CONCLUSION

CONCLUSION

Mr Speaker, Sir, the Government has carefully calibrated its response to the regional crisis. We have taken actions commensurate with the situation we faced. We did not over react. As a result, we have won the confidence of both Singaporeans and the international community in the way we have managed the crisis. While there are some signs of stability emerging over the past few months, there still exist many risk factors and uncertainties in our external environment. We cannot afford to be overly sanguine about the economic prospects for 1999. If things should take a turn for the worse, the Government has the accumulated financial resources to cope with the crisis.

1999 will be a test of our determination and of our nerves. We must not abandon the fundamental policies that have served

us well in the past. At the same time, we have to be nimble and flexible in dealing with the situation as it develops. We will continue to invest in our future, by developing a world class infrastructure and enhancing the capability of our people and workforce. I am confident that Singaporeans will pass the test, and we will emerge from the crisis stronger and leaner.

Sir, I beg to move. [Applause.]

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: The Question is, "That Parliament approves the financial policy of the Government for the financial year 1st April, 1999 to 31st March, 2000." In accordance with paragraph (1) of Standing Order No. 86, the debate now stands adjourned.

Debate to be resumed on what day, Dr Hu?

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau

**Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau:**

Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Monday, 8th March, 1999, Sir.

Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Mr Speaker)

**Mr Speaker:**

Mr Speaker: So be it.

## ADJOURNMENT

ADJOURNMENT

Resolved,

"That Parliament do now adjourn to Monday, 8th March, 1999." - [Mr Wong Kan Seng].

Adjourned accordingly at Twenty-two minutes to Six o'clock pm to Monday, 8th March, 1999.
